 
 
Prologue 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 The year was 1885 and the American west was 
still a rough place. William Dean Ritter had left his 
small Montana farm two years earlier to become a 
cowboy. Having learned his craft on a large 
Wyoming ranch, he was about to head out again. 
This time on an even more difficult quest -- that to 
become a man.  
 This first novel follows him from his Montana 
farm to a Texas cattle drive. Along the way, he en-
counters a big slice of western life -- the good, the 
bad, and all that lies in between.  
 These are the stories of that young man who, 
guided by the lessons of his mother and father and 
the other strong men and women he meets along 
the way, searches for his place in a world that, in 
many respects, isn’t all that different from today’s. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Call Me Montana 
 
The Beginning 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A Novel By 
John E. Richman 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Published by John E. Richman 
October, 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Without limiting the rights under copyright reserved by the 
author, no part of this publication may be reproduced, stored 
in or introduced into a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any 
form, or by any means (electronic, mechanical, photocopying, 
recording, or otherwise) without the prior written permission 
of the writer/publisher of this book.  
 
This work is fiction. Names, characters, places, and incidents 
either are the product of the author’s imagination, drawn from 
actual historical places, figures, or events, or are used ficti-
tiously, and any other resemblance to actual persons, living or 
dead, business establishments, events, or locales, is entirely 
coincidental.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All Rights Reserved 
Printed in the United States of America 
E0510 
Library of Congress  
Control Number 2007909843
 
 
1
Chapter 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I remember that morning like it was yesterday. 
The sky was blue as a robin’s egg and there was a 
light breeze coming up from south. I was just two 
hours into my journey, and already having second 
thoughts. 
New things are always a little scary at first, and 
my decision to leave home gave me pause to 
consider how my life was about to change. At the 
same time, I took comfort in the familiar scenery 
around me. Over the course of my youth, I’d 
ridden that trail many times, and knew it well, but 
as much as I tried to concentrate on the trip itself, 
my mind kept flashing back to the look in my 
mother’s eyes as I’d said goodbye, just hours 
before.  
Neither of my parents had been all that comfort-
able with my decision to leave, but in the end they 
both seemed to accept that it was going to happen 
one day, anyway. I know mother knew it because 
she was the one who’d exposed me to the rest of 
the world in the first place. Why would she have 
John E. Richman 
 
2
had me read all those books, if she didn’t think I 
was actually going to go?   
Father’s reaction had been a little different. At 
first, he was dead set against my leaving. After a 
while though, once he could see there was no 
talking me out of it, he seemed to get a little more 
comfortable with it. 
 It would be another fifty or so miles before the 
scenery began to look new to me. I supposed it 
would probably not be much different for a while, 
but I was watchful for when it would change from 
old to new. I expected there’d be more adventure 
in looking at scenery for the first time.  
My given name is William Dean Ritter. At home 
they called me Billy, but most folks call me 
Montana. I suppose it’s because shortly after the 
war ended, my folks’ wagon train dropped them 
off near a huge patch of nothing called Bighorn 
Lake in Montana country. There’d been some sort 
of argument between the wagon master and my 
father about directions. Story goes, they were on 
their way to Oregon, but got a little off the trail. To 
this day, my father maintains it wasn’t his fault.  
I was born and grew up on a small, bottom-land 
farm that bordered Bighorn Lake where the soil 
was rich and the winters hard. We grew potatoes, 
wheat and barley, but mostly potatoes. Seems they 
like the moisture in our little valley. 
 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
3
My sister Mary came after me and both of us 
were home-schooled by our mother, who’d gone to 
college back east.  
It was a good life, but at sixteen I’d learned just 
about everything there was to know about Bighorn 
Lake, and I was bored. I planned to work my way 
south to the Wind River country of Wyoming, 
where I heard a good cowboy could get a job. 
Now, truth is, at sixteen I wasn’t really a good 
cowboy. I reckon I wasn’t a cowboy at all, but I 
had lots of ambition. 
Now, don’t get me wrong -- my folks were good 
God-fearin’ people and our farm was a great place 
to grow up for Mary and me, but our nearest 
neighbors were Cheyenne, and while we got along 
pretty well, I wanted to see more of the country 
and more folks like me. Bighorn Lake seemed 
pretty far away from the world in my mother’s 
books and, by sixteen, it was clear to me that I was 
going to end up a farmer for life if I stayed there. 
Of course, nobody called me Montana when I lived 
there…it just seemed to catch on after. 
I got my first real job as a cowhand on a large 
cattle ranch under the Tetons. The ranch bordered 
the Snake River, not far outside a little town called 
Jackson Hole. I told the boss that I didn’t have a lot 
of experience with cattle but was eager to learn. He 
took a chance on me. A few of the older hands 
showed me the tricks and I learned fast.   
After three months at the “Circle R” I was doing 
pretty well when near-disaster struck. I lost my old 
John E. Richman 
 
4
horse to a prairie dog hole. He broke his leg and 
had to be put down. A cowboy needs a good horse, 
and losing mine would have put me out of work if 
it hadn’t been for my boss. I guess he’d taken a 
liken’ to me. Dan Turner ran the ranch and he 
loaned me the money to buy a beautiful colt sired 
by his own horse.  
I found out later that the colt was promised to 
Dan’s son, Drew. But Drew was killed in a droving 
accident the year before and when the colt was 
born, Dan couldn’t bear to sell him. It took me 
another year to work off the loan, but it was well 
worth it. I named the colt Spirit, and I knew right 
off he was special. What I didn’t know, was that he 
was to become a big part of my life.   
After almost two years at the Circle R I’d 
become a pretty good cowboy. Dan didn’t want to 
lose me and I really didn’t want to leave, but I’d 
heard that a good hand could make a lot of money 
moving cattle between Texas and Oklahoma, 
through Indian country, and I wanted to try it. I 
wanted to see more of the world and I liked the 
idea of making more money.   
So it happened that early one morning, I packed 
up and headed south. I didn’t know exactly where I 
was going, but with the two-hundred and twenty-
two dollars I’d saved, and what was now one of the 
fastest horses in the territory, I looked forward to 
the adventure. 
It was cold and rainy the morning Spirit and I 
left. It was only mid-October, but the winds of 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
5
winter were already beginning to stir in the 
mountains, and there was a chill in the air that 
went right through you. The Snake had swollen to 
the point that I gave some thought to turning back 
and waiting for better weather. The water was fast 
and we had to search some time for a wide section 
where I figured the water would slow down 
enough for us to get across. We finally found one a 
mile or so down-river from the trail. Spirit isn’t 
fond of swimming anyway and was pretty spooked 
as we entered the water. He balked a few times 
when the bottom dropped away. Halfway across, 
with the wind and rain pushing up my shirt-tail, 
Spirit gave up trying to walk the bottom and began 
to swim. We’d barely left and already my saddle 
and pack were soaked! But Spirit’s strong legs kept 
going for the several minutes it took to reach the 
other side. I’m not usually superstitious, but had to 
wonder with this ugly start, if God wasn’t trying to 
tell me something.  
Over the next week, Spirit and I worked our way 
down the eastern edge of the Rockies. The endless 
rain blended the trails and fields into swamps and 
ponds. We were constantly wet. We camped each 
night on the highest ground we could find, but had 
increasing trouble finding dry wood for our fires. 
On the seventh day, the rain stopped and the sun 
came out. We dried out and things started to look a 
little better. I began to enjoy the scenery that only a 
few days before had been scary and threatening. 
I’d never been south of the miner’s camp before, 
John E. Richman 
 
6
so everything that I saw, I was seeing for the first 
time. I guessed this was the new world my 
mother’d talked about. 
After two weeks on the trail, we came to the 
little town of Green River. I was glad to see 
civilization again. Green River was just another 
little mining town, with a church, two hotels and 
several saloons, but it looked pretty big to me. The 
livery was on the west side of town and the 
blacksmith said he’d keep Spirit cleaned and fed 
for thirty-cents a day. The place looked clean and I 
figured he deserved a little special treatment as 
much as I did, so I paid in advance for two days, 
grabbed my bedroll and walked into town.    
That night I checked into the Baxter Hotel and 
took a bath to get the mud and rain off me. I went 
right to bed and didn’t get up until noon the next 
day. 
That evening, I was sitting in the hotel saloon 
enjoying my first cool beer in weeks. I’d been in 
saloons before, in Jackson Hole, but nothing like 
this one. Dozens of men, dressed in all kinds of 
fancy clothes, mingled with young and old women 
who wore the most colorful dresses I’d ever seen. 
In the corner was a piano and a real good player. 
He played non-stop, and fast, too. I couldn’t 
imagine where he learned all those songs!   
While I sat there, taking in all these new sights 
and sounds, I was aware that two different poker 
games were being played at the tables behind me. 
At one point, in the midst of the saloon noise and 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
7
activity, the piano player stopped cold. The crowd 
turned quiet. I looked around to see what had 
caused this oddity and noticed that everybody else 
was looking toward the door. There, standing in 
the center of the swinging doors, was one of the 
largest men I’d ever seen. A giant…bearded and 
dressed in skins. I thought to myself, if the sun had 
been out, he’d have surely blocked it and plunged 
us into darkness.   
By the sudden silence, it was obvious that this 
man was either greatly respected or sorely feared. I 
was afraid to guess which.   
The calm was broken when somebody behind 
me shouted, “Hey…Captain Daggot!” The giant 
just nodded as he waded through the crowd and 
took up a chair at the bar next to me. 
 He ordered a bottle of whiskey and, in a voice 
as rough as he looked, told the rest of the folks to 
stop staring at him and go back to what they were 
doing. Slowly, the crowd did just that, and 
resumed their previous commotion.  
Now fully settled, he turned and looked right at 
me. “I thought I told you to stop looking at me.”   
Without daring to respond, I quickly turned back 
to my glass, staring into it, trying to find the 
courage to get up and move. “Sorry, sir,” was all I 
could muster up as a response. 
“You’re new around here, aren’t you boy? 
Where do you hail from?”   
Not wanting to bother him any further, I turned 
back toward him and noticed I was staring at his 
John E. Richman 
 
8
chest. His head was somewhere higher than mine, 
so I had to look up to properly answer. “I’m from 
Bighorn Lake, Montana, sir. I’m a cowboy.” 
Captain Daggot glared at me as if I’d insulted his 
mother. Now I was really beginning to get nervous. 
After a long pause, his face opened up in a giant 
smile and he responded, “Well, cowboy from 
Montana, you’re a long way from home. Is that 
butter-brown horse down at the livery yours?”   
“Yes sir. That’s Spirit. He’s the fastest horse in 
the territory.” With that he laughed and told me 
that was quite a boast since, as a newcomer, I 
couldn’t have any way of knowing how fast the 
local horses were in Green River. “But then again, 
he’s a fine looking horse and you might just be 
right.”  
At least this odd giant seemed to know some-
thing about horses.   
As rough as he looked, I could see he had a 
glimmer in his eye when he spoke. It gave me 
some comfort this might be more a “gentle” giant 
than the rest of the saloon had let on. Over the next 
couple of hours, and several more beers, Captain 
Daggot explained to me how he knew his 
horseflesh so well. Seems he spent a career in the 
Cavalry, fighting everything from Indians to 
Confederates, retiring as a Captain after the war. 
After that, he’d spent some time in Kansas before 
settling in the country around Green River, where 
he hunted just enough buffalo to make a living.  
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
9
In the course of our conversation, he told me he 
was leaving in the morning for a buffalo hunt five 
days ride east and invited me to follow along. “It 
won’t get you to Oklahoma, but it’s on the way, so 
it won’t cost any time and I could use another fast 
horse.” Truth is I was getting tired of traveling 
alone, so the offer sounded good. We agreed to 
meet up at the livery at sunrise, packed and ready 
to move out. 
He then bid me good night and walked out the 
door, drawing nearly as much attention from the 
crowd as he had on the way in. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10 
Chapter 2 
 
 
 
 
 
“Irish Dan” McVey was, at best, a drifter. At 
worst you could rightfully call him a criminal. 
He’d been in the territory since the war, though 
nobody was aware that he’d ever actually served. 
Given his general disdain for the law, he probably 
didn’t. Deserter, if at all. But, as bad apples tend to 
attract more bad apples, Irish Dan had recently 
assembled a small gang of n’er-do-wells, much 
like himself. As self-appointed leader, he’d been 
successful in directing a series of low-level 
robberies and assaults throughout the Cheyenne 
territory. They were beginning to be thought of as 
a pretty mean bunch.  
Lately they’d become adept at robbing from 
ranches while the owners were away. Starting 
small with tableware and occasionally livestock, 
their criminal appetites were growing and they 
were becoming ever more bold…and more danger-
ous. 
Contrary to what you might read, most folks in 
the Wyoming territory in 1885 weren’t gun-
fighters. Most didn’t even carry guns. Those that 
did, did so mostly for hunting. Even fewer 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
11 
carried handguns, as they were not very accurate 
beyond fifty feet. But Irish Dan was a exception to 
the rule. In recent months, he and his gang had 
been arming up with both Winchesters and 
handguns.  
The morning of November fourth found Irish 
Dan’s gang working their way north to the stage 
trail, from a night’s mischief involving two barns 
and a ranch house. Their saddlebags were filled 
with ill-gotten merchandise consisting of near 
forty-five dollars in cash, a handful of gold coins, a 
set of silver plate tableware, a custom made 
hunting knife, and a finely carved wooden box. 
That was the pride of their night’s work. The box 
contained a matched set of silver, engraved, Colt 
45 revolvers and they were beautiful! They’d run 
across them quite unexpectedly inside an old 
saddlebag that was hanging on a barn post at a 
small ranch some ten miles behind them. Irish Dan, 
a man who knew his guns, estimated them to be 
worth hundreds.   
With his newfound prize, McVey planned to 
leave the area for one of the way stations on the 
stagecoach line and sell them to some unsuspect-
ing traveler. The rest of the night’s loot could be 
traded in the usual way, either in Laramie or in any 
of the camps they’d run across along the way. 
The morning dawned bright for a change, and 
McVey’s gang made the stage trail around nine-
thirty. “We’ll go west,” he grumbled. “There’s a 
station about an hour’s ride from here.” That was 
John E. Richman 
 
12 
all he said but it was sufficient instruction for his 
partners in crime who, having been up all night, 
were too tired and hungry to argue. But, early as it 
was, McVey was already thinking. After last 
night’s raids, he harbored the concern that the 
owner of those Colt’s might return to find them 
gone and be persuaded to saddle up and come 
looking for them. Or as bad, that word of the loss 
of these special Colts might travel and catch up to 
them. 
Within the hour, just as McVey had predicted, 
they arrived at the way station along the stage road. 
On hearing the horses, Amos Carey walked out 
front to see who had arrived.  
“You boys surprised me,” he offered. “We don’t 
expect a stage until noon and we don’t get too 
many other visitors. Feel free to water your horses 
and come in out of the sun to freshen up.”  
“Thanks, we’ll do just that,” McVey responded. 
“We’ve been up all night and we’re dead tired. 
You say there’s a stage expected around noon?” 
“Should be, but you can never tell with stages. 
Might be sooner… might be later.” 
After watering the horses, McVey and his men 
followed Amos into the station and ordered a 
round of waters. “Where’s your brother? I thought 
this was a two man operation,” observed McVey.   
“Oh, Isaak should be back shortly. He went 
hunting over the ridge this morning and I haven’t 
seen him since. I hope he gets something ‘cause 
we’re getting a little low on grub. So…I can’t offer 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
13 
you anything to eat but you and your men are free 
to freshen up and rest a while if you want. Of 
course we don’t have beds but you’ll find that the 
ground under the big pine in back is mighty soft on 
a tired back.”   
“Maybe we’ll just take you up on that, but before 
we do, I got a little proposition for you. Seems I 
recently came into a nice pair of silver Colts and, 
as it is, they’re for sale.” McVey then walked 
outside and returned with a dark, carved wooden 
box, laying it on top of the cold stove. Amos Carey 
had no need for guns and no money to buy them 
with, but wandered over anyway to see what the 
stranger’d brought in.   
McVey stood back letting Amos move his 
fingers over the polished wood box and the silver 
latch.   
“That’s OK, open it” whispered McVey.   
With the curiosity of a child, Amos gently lifted 
the latch and opened the box. Inside, nestled in a 
pile of blue velvet, were two of the finest revolvers 
he’d ever had the pleasure to see.   
“They’re really something,” said Amos as he 
reached to lift one from its velvet cradle.  
“Hold it” McVey grew louder. “That’s close 
enough. I don’t want you gettin’ ‘em dirty.”   
Amos quickly removed his hand and turned back 
to McVey. “I hope you can stay long enough for 
Isaak to see these Mister. He’s got the gun sense 
and I don’t think I could do justice to describing 
John E. Richman 
 
14 
‘em. But I hope you know we don’t have need for 
such finery and no money to buy them anyway.” 
“That brings me to my proposition,” answered 
McVey. I’d like to wait out your next stage and see 
if any of the travelers would be interested in 
buying them.”  
As Amos was about to respond, the door opened 
and in plodded Isaak with muddy boots and a large 
dead rabbit in each hand. “Amos, get a knife. You 
gotta clean these rabbits before they turn bad.”  
As Isaak looked around the room, he saw the 
visitors whose horses he’d seen out front. “Looks 
like I interrupted something. What goes on here?” 
Amos responded, “Mr. McVey here is looking 
for a buyer for his hand guns,” pointing to the 
opened box with the Colts. “Wants to wait out the 
noon stage and see if there’s a buyer aboard.” 
Isaak placed the rabbits on the table and walked 
over to the stove. He stared at the Colts in their box 
for near a minute, speechless. He finally looked up 
and turned to McVey. “May I ask where you 
obtained these, Mr. McVey? They look somewhat 
familiar.” 
McVey didn’t like being questioned and fumbled 
putting the cover back on the box. “Won ‘em in a 
poker game a while back. They’re too pretty to 
use, so I’m looking for a buyer.”  
Isaak pondered McVey’s response and answer-
ed, “Poker, huh? Must have been a pretty high 
stakes game.” 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
15 
“Yeah, yeah,” replied McVey, “Are you going to 
let us wait out the stage here or do we have to stop 
it ourselves?” 
“Doesn’t make no never mind to me,” answered 
Isaak, who turned to pick up his rabbits and the 
skinning knife that Amos had placed on the table 
with them. He walked out the door with nothing 
more to say. 
With that, McVey sat down in a chair and 
poured himself a cup of water from the pitcher on 
the table. “Not very sociable, is he?” he said to 
Amos. 
“That’s not like him Mister, but he’s probably 
tired from chasing those rabbits. You and your 
friends can wait in here or sleep under the pines. 
The stage should be along in a few hours.” 
After a few minutes of puttering in the sink, 
Amos excused himself and went outside to help his 
brother clean rabbits.  
The younger of McVey’s men spoke up. “What 
the devil do you think of that? You suppose he 
recognized those Colts? What are you going to do 
about it McVey?” 
“Nothin!” McVey sniped back. “Not a damn 
thing. Even if he did, we’ll be long gone by the 
time he could tell anybody.” 
Another of McVey’s men spoke up. “Just the 
same, it doesn’t seem too friendly around here. 
Maybe we ought to just move on.” 
“I’ll decide when we move on,” McVey’s 
response was gruff. He knew there was some risk 
John E. Richman 
 
16 
now in staying, but didn’t want it to show in front 
of his men. He moved over to look out the 
window, but didn’t see either of the Carey brothers 
in the yard. “Mighty quiet out there. Maybe I’ll go 
for a little walk.”  
As McVey entered the yard, he heard horses 
rustle behind the station. He walked around the 
corner just in time to see both brothers mounting 
their horses. The rabbits were still in one piece on 
a nearby table.  
“WHERE DO YOU BOYS THINK YOU’RE 
GOING?” shouted McVey, who had now drawn 
his handgun from his holster and was holding it on 
both Isaak and Amos. “Looks like my boys were 
right. Maybe you two should get off those horses 
and come back inside for a chat.”   
One more second and the Carey brothers could 
have ridden off, but they knew they couldn’t beat a 
drawn pistol, so they both dismounted as instructed 
and headed back around to the front of the station. 
McVey stayed a few paces behind, keeping them 
in his sight. “And take that knife out of your pants 
and drop it the ground.”   
Isaak McVey slowly pulled up his shirt and, with 
two fingers, removed the knife that had been 
hidden under it, allowing it to drop to the ground. 
As the brothers were about to reentered the 
station door, Amos apparently panicked and started 
to run. McVey followed him with his eyes and 
pulled the trigger. A loud “Crack” exploded from 
his pistol and Amos Carey dropped to the ground. 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
17 
It was clear to all that Amos’ decision to run had 
just cost him his life.  
“Dammit,” cursed McVey, “where did he think 
he was running to?” By this time the other three of 
McVey’s men were fully alert and on their feet. 
One spoke up. 
 “You never said anything about killin’ McVey. 
“I didn’t sign up for this.”  
“Shut up,” was the only reply the nervous 
McVey could muster up.  
With all eyes fixed on the body, no one noticed 
that brother Isaak had, himself, fallen to his knees 
and was slow-crawling over to where he had just 
dropped the knife. In a suddenness that startled the 
other men, Isaak grabbed the knife from the 
ground, raised it, and in a single motion, threw it at 
McVey, just missing his face.   
On seeing the knife pass by his head, McVey’s 
reaction was just as sudden. He pointed his pistol 
at the remaining Carey brother and again pulled the 
trigger. Crack! Isaak dropped, joining Amos in his 
journey to heaven. 
This time there was no quick comment at all 
from McVey or any of his men. Just silence. They 
must have known their lives had just been changed 
forever.
 
 
18 
Chapter 3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sarah Rogers was supposed to have been a 
schoolteacher by now. She’d had already complet-
ed most of two years of teacher’s college in 
Philadelphia, but with the news that her Uncle 
Stuart had taken sick out west in California, Sara’s 
father and mother decided to pull up stakes and 
move west to help out. The trip, this late in the 
year, had already been long and uncomfortable. 
The Cheyenne-Laramie stage was working its way 
west, an hour out of Laramie, carrying Sarah, her 
father Tom, and mother inside. They were crowded 
onto two wooden seats just large enough to hold 
the three of them, and a very large trunk.  
All the discomfort aside, the weather was 
surprisingly good for early November and they’d 
had a good sleep the night before in Cheyenne. All 
in all, Tom considered that things could be worse. 
Since none of them had ever been west of the 
Pennsylvania mountains, they were most anxious 
about the life they were entering. Mrs. Rogers 
hoped it would as satisfying as her life had been as 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
19 
a constable’s wife in Philadelphia. Tom enjoyed 
his police work but had always harbored a wander-
lust. Maybe he was bored, but he’d talked of 
moving west for years.   
Law officers are usually practical men, not 
dreamers. Tom Rogers was a little bit of both. His 
only discomfort came from the fact that realizing 
his dream had to, by necessity, involve the two 
most important women in his life. He feared more 
for their comfort and safety than he did his own.   
It was about noon when the driver yelled back, 
“WAY STATION IN FIFTEEN MINUTES!” It 
would be good to get off these hard seats for even 
a few minutes, thought Sarah -- a sentiment no 
doubt shared by her parents.   
Stagecoach way stations were usually not much 
more than shacks, with a well, an outhouse, and 
wash-water for horses and travelers. Occasionally 
they would have some food, but not always. The 
one coming up was better than most.  
It was operated by a pair of Swedish brothers, 
Isaak and Amos Carey. Both good men and usually 
quick to welcome the several stages that came 
through each week with good cold water and old-
fashioned western hospitality.   
Moments later, the stage pulled up in front, in a 
cloud of dust. But the driver thought things seemed 
a little different this time. Neither Isaak nor Amos 
came out to meet them and, after the dust had 
settled, a strange silence hung over the place. 
John E. Richman 
 
20 
The driver, a thick man with thinning hair who 
referred to himself as “Red,” set the brake and 
jumped to the ground, ignoring Tom Rogers’ 
request that he open the stage door to let he and his 
family out. Red quickly disappeared inside the 
station. 
  Having to reach out and turn the door latch 
himself, Tom Rogers was about to exit the stage 
unassisted. As he placed his foot on the stage step, 
preparing to make the jump, Red reappeared 
hastily exiting the station and informed the family 
that this would not be a good stop. “We need to 
move on,” was all he said. Needless to say, the 
Rogers family didn’t receive the news well.   
“What do you mean move on? We need a break 
and so do your horses.” But Tom Rogers might as 
well have been talking to himself. Red had already 
jumped up to the driver’s bench, released the 
brake, and set the stage in motion. Rogers had to 
quickly jump back up on the step and hold on for 
dear life until he could swing himself back inside 
the coach.   
Twenty minutes down the rough trail, the stage 
again stopped. Red dismounted and walked back to 
the stage door, peering in as if to provide a little 
more information about their hasty departure just 
minutes before. Tom was still angry at the way 
they’d left in such a hurry. But when Red opened 
the stage door, Nel could see he didn’t look right. 
She put her hand on Tom’s arm to hold him back.   
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
21 
“They were dead,” he said, having trouble 
getting the words out. “They were all dead!” 
“Who was dead?” demanded Tom.   
“They were -- the two brothers who ran that 
station. Blood all over. Not a fit sight for women-
folk. Indians I reckon. Either way I think we 
should push on to Price’s Station if you all can 
make it.” 
The Rogers family began their journey west 
three weeks before, when they boarded the train in 
Philadelphia for St. Louis. They’d been told that 
life in the west was going to be different…rougher, 
dirtier and maybe even dangerous. Over the past 
three weeks they’d been roughed up some and had 
surely experienced dirtier. However, this was the 
first time they had to deal with the latter. Given the 
shocking news, they agreed to abide by the driver’s 
decision and move out of there as quickly as 
possible, though none of them had any concept of 
how far “Price’s Station” would be. 
The trip had suddenly taken on a different feel. 
The little family from back east sat in silence for 
most of the next hour, while Mrs. Rogers eyes 
remained locked on her husband’s. He wished he 
knew what she was thinking, but was afraid to 
break the silence and ask. Sarah was also 
concerned, but seemed to take it in stride better. 
And though he didn’t want it to show, Tom was 
the most concerned. He’d spent years dealing with 
such crime back east and had hoped that was part 
John E. Richman 
 
22 
of his past now. What had he gotten his family 
into? 
 
By the time I got down to the livery Captain 
Daggot was already saddled and ready to go. 
“Thought you’d never get here! Darn near left 
without you,” he muttered.  
I wondered if the morning’s Captain Daggot 
would be the tough guy that had brought last 
night’s saloon to a whisper, or the talkative buffalo 
hunter who’d later spent a pleasant hour with me 
over a few beers? While these questions lingered in 
my mind, I noticed we weren’t alone.   
“This is Whiteplume. He’s Arapaho. Best tracker 
in the territory. Just call him Whitey and stay out 
of his way. He can be a little moody.”   
“He can be a little moody!” I thought. Looked a 
little like the Captain and Whitey might share that 
same trait. This looked to be a hard group to warm 
up to. 
As Daggot spoke his name, “Whitey” looked 
over his shoulder at me and just smiled. I smiled 
back but couldn’t reconcile Daggot’s warning. 
Looked like a smile to me. He didn’t seem to be at 
all moody, but I guess I couldn’t judge him so 
quick. Time would tell. Didn’t matter much to me. 
I told myself if things got a little to tense with my 
fellow travelers, I could just head out on my own 
again. 
 When Whitey mounted his paint, I also got a 
quick peek at the big knife he had belted around 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
23 
his waist. It must have been fifteen inches long! 
Smile or not, for now I thought I’d heed the 
Captain’s caution and stay out of his way. 
The Captain’s horse was well suited to him. One 
of the biggest I’d ever seen though maybe a little 
beyond his prime. Still, clearly able to carry this 
giant of a man with his long buffalo gun strapped 
to the saddle. A giant in skins, an Indian tracker 
and a cowboy! We must have looked a sight as we 
left the livery and headed east.   
It was foggy when we left Green River but the 
fog burned off by mid-morning and the sun began 
to warm our bones. I knew from the maps I’d 
studied at home, that the town of Laramie was on 
our route east. I asked if we were going through it, 
but the Captain said he preferred to avoid it. I 
didn’t pursue it any further but wondered if he’d 
had a bad experience there in the past. It didn’t 
matter to me as I supposed I’d be seeing a lot of 
towns on my trip to Texas.  
It was early afternoon when we arrived at our 
first stop, a little stagecoach station Daggot said 
was run by a man named Price. 
We watered our horses and followed Daggot in 
to meet Mr. Price. He was tall and lanky, appearing 
to be in his mid-forties. He seemed to know 
Daggot well because they immediately began 
carrying on about his last visit. Turns out Daggot 
used his station from time to time, to sell buffalo 
skins to travelers.  
John E. Richman 
 
24 
Mr. Price yelled out for Whitey to come on in 
after watering the horses. When he did, we all sat 
down for a good drink of water and I listened while 
the rest of them talked about old times. Mr. Price 
served us some bread he had just baked in the 
morning and told us to eat up before the stage 
arrived. He would need what would be left of the 
loaf and the space for the travelers, due to arrive in 
about half an hour. 
It wasn’t ten minutes later, the Cheyenne stage 
arrived -- early. In keeping with the traditions of 
running a way station, Mr. Price went out the door 
to greet them. I guessed that was our signal to 
finish up, clean up, and disappear. 
After I cleared the table, I heard a commotion 
out front between the stage driver and Mr. Price. 
By then, Captain Daggot had left the station and 
joined in, and they were all taking real serious. As 
I walked out to see what all the excitement was 
about, the stage door swung open and out came the 
prettiest girl I think I’d ever seen. Behind her, a 
middle-aged man and a good looking woman. The 
man joined in the conversation briefly before he 
and the women headed toward the station house. 
My eyes followed the girl in the white dress until 
she disappeared behind the door. I snapped back to 
reality when Daggot yelled to Whitey and me to 
hold up. Something was wrong and I was getting 
real curious about what it was.  
As I got closer to the conversation, they were 
talking about two men who’d been shot in the next 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
25 
way station. Apparently, the driver had come on 
their bodies when they stopped there earlier in the 
morning. The driver was so upset, he just left them 
where he’d found them.   
The morning sun was getting warm so the 
conversation moved into the station. The women 
were excused to a back room to rest while all the 
men joined in the meeting. As much as I wanted to 
see more of that girl in the white dress, my 
curiosity got the best of me and I stayed to listen. 
At one point Mr. Price said they should send 
Red, the driver, on to Laramie to get a telegram off 
to the Marshal’s office in Cheyenne, informing 
him of the killings.   
The Captain believed that would take too long 
and by the time the Marshal got to the Carey 
Station, the killers, were they not already, would 
be long gone.   
There was also some guessing as to who might 
have done it and why? While Red maintained that 
it looked like the work of Indians, Mr. Price 
observed that station was run by the Carey 
brothers, Isaak and Amos…“who didn’t have 
much and certainly not enough for Indians or 
anyone else to kill them over.”   
“No, doesn’t sound like Indians to me,” argued 
Daggot. “I know the Crow in the area and they’ve 
been peaceful for years. It doesn’t set well with me 
that it’s Crow.”   
No matter, someone would have to go to that 
station and get them or bury them. Mr. Price 
John E. Richman 
 
26 
offered to ride to Laramie to notify the stage 
company and get a telegram off to Cheyenne to 
send someone out.  
“But,” Price added looking directly at Daggot, 
“at best it’ll take some time for that to happen, so it 
will be left to you to go and investigate, while any 
evidence is still fresh.” 
Having been a lawman back east, Rogers 
couldn’t help but take an interest in the investiga-
tion, though he remained more concerned for the 
safety of his wife and daughter. He told Daggot 
that their journey to their sick relative’s place in 
California required them to bring along everything 
they had. Their entire life was contained in the 
trunks on the stage. He would need to protect them 
as well as his wife and daughter.   
Turning to Mr. Price, Rogers stated, “I’m awful 
sorry about those two men, but this stage company 
owes me and my family some protection and I 
think that would be best served if you took us to 
Laramie with you.’ 
“Everybody slow down,” responded Daggot, 
who seemed to have taken charge of the situation. 
“I don’t think the Crow had any part in this, but I 
won’t know for sure until I see the bodies. In the 
meantime, Price, you need to ride to Laramie and 
notify both the Marshal’s office and the stage 
company. We can’t have stages continue to drop in 
on that station. On top of everything else, they’ll 
mess up any evidence that might be there and then 
we’ll never know what happened.” 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
27 
Rogers spoke up. “If Price is going to Laramie I 
don’t see any reason why we can’t join him.” 
At that, Daggot began to lose patience with Mr. 
Rogers. “The reason is that we’ll need the stage to 
transport the bodies. Price, here, will be going to 
Laramie on horseback! I suspect that won’t work 
for you, your family, and all your possessions.” 
“Well,” Rogers responded, losing his patience as 
well, “if you’re all going back to the scene of the 
killings, what are we supposed to do? Wait for the 
killers to come here and kill us?  
“I understand your concern, sir,” replied Daggot. 
“You said you were a lawman, right? I take it 
you’ve investigated crime scenes before?”  
“Certainly… thousands of ‘em,” responded 
Rogers, “What are you asking?” 
Daggot continued, “I just thought that without 
the Marshall or a Deputy, we might be able to use 
your experience in looking the scene over.”  
Bothered, but at the same time flattered, Rogers 
responded, “You might be right, but there’s no way 
I’m going to take my wife and daughter back there 
and there’s no way I’m going to leave them here. 
So what you propose would be impossible.”  
Without really working the words out in my 
head, I blurted out, “I’ll stay with ‘em! I mean if 
that’s alright with you Mr. Rogers.”   
The more Daggot thought about taking Tom 
Rogers with him, the more he became convinced it 
could be useful. 
John E. Richman 
 
28 
“They’ll be safe right here with Montana and if 
we leave now, we could be back by sundown… 
should only take three to four hours. I’m not sure 
there’s much else we can do there anyway. What 
do you say, Rogers? It’s not Philadelphia, but how 
about being a lawman again for a few hours?” 
“I don’t like it but give me a minute to discuss it 
with my wife. Incidentally, how do I know they 
would be any safer with this young man ‘Montana’ 
than they would on their own?”  
“I can vouch for him,” replied Captain Daggot, 
“and Price here can vouch for me.” With that, Mr. 
Price nodded his head and Mr. Rogers walked 
