 
 
Prologue 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 The year was 1885 and the American west was 
still a rough place. William Dean Ritter had left his 
small Montana farm two years earlier to become a 
cowboy. Having learned his craft on a large 
Wyoming ranch, he was about to head out again. 
This time on an even more difficult quest -- that to 
become a man.  
 This first novel follows him from his Montana 
farm to a Texas cattle drive. Along the way, he en-
counters a big slice of western life -- the good, the 
bad, and all that lies in between.  
 These are the stories of that young man who, 
guided by the lessons of his mother and father and 
the other strong men and women he meets along 
the way, searches for his place in a world that, in 
many respects, isn’t all that different from today’s. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Call Me Montana 
 
The Beginning 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A Novel By 
John E. Richman 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Published by John E. Richman 
October, 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Without limiting the rights under copyright reserved by the 
author, no part of this publication may be reproduced, stored 
in or introduced into a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any 
form, or by any means (electronic, mechanical, photocopying, 
recording, or otherwise) without the prior written permission 
of the writer/publisher of this book.  
 
This work is fiction. Names, characters, places, and incidents 
either are the product of the author’s imagination, drawn from 
actual historical places, figures, or events, or are used ficti-
tiously, and any other resemblance to actual persons, living or 
dead, business establishments, events, or locales, is entirely 
coincidental.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All Rights Reserved 
Printed in the United States of America 
E0510 
Library of Congress  
Control Number 2007909843
 
 
1
Chapter 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I remember that morning like it was yesterday. 
The sky was blue as a robin’s egg and there was a 
light breeze coming up from south. I was just two 
hours into my journey, and already having second 
thoughts. 
New things are always a little scary at first, and 
my decision to leave home gave me pause to 
consider how my life was about to change. At the 
same time, I took comfort in the familiar scenery 
around me. Over the course of my youth, I’d 
ridden that trail many times, and knew it well, but 
as much as I tried to concentrate on the trip itself, 
my mind kept flashing back to the look in my 
mother’s eyes as I’d said goodbye, just hours 
before.  
Neither of my parents had been all that comfort-
able with my decision to leave, but in the end they 
both seemed to accept that it was going to happen 
one day, anyway. I know mother knew it because 
she was the one who’d exposed me to the rest of 
the world in the first place. Why would she have 
John E. Richman 
 
2
had me read all those books, if she didn’t think I 
was actually going to go?   
Father’s reaction had been a little different. At 
first, he was dead set against my leaving. After a 
while though, once he could see there was no 
talking me out of it, he seemed to get a little more 
comfortable with it. 
 It would be another fifty or so miles before the 
scenery began to look new to me. I supposed it 
would probably not be much different for a while, 
but I was watchful for when it would change from 
old to new. I expected there’d be more adventure 
in looking at scenery for the first time.  
My given name is William Dean Ritter. At home 
they called me Billy, but most folks call me 
Montana. I suppose it’s because shortly after the 
war ended, my folks’ wagon train dropped them 
off near a huge patch of nothing called Bighorn 
Lake in Montana country. There’d been some sort 
of argument between the wagon master and my 
father about directions. Story goes, they were on 
their way to Oregon, but got a little off the trail. To 
this day, my father maintains it wasn’t his fault.  
I was born and grew up on a small, bottom-land 
farm that bordered Bighorn Lake where the soil 
was rich and the winters hard. We grew potatoes, 
wheat and barley, but mostly potatoes. Seems they 
like the moisture in our little valley. 
 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
3
My sister Mary came after me and both of us 
were home-schooled by our mother, who’d gone to 
college back east.  
It was a good life, but at sixteen I’d learned just 
about everything there was to know about Bighorn 
Lake, and I was bored. I planned to work my way 
south to the Wind River country of Wyoming, 
where I heard a good cowboy could get a job. 
Now, truth is, at sixteen I wasn’t really a good 
cowboy. I reckon I wasn’t a cowboy at all, but I 
had lots of ambition. 
Now, don’t get me wrong -- my folks were good 
God-fearin’ people and our farm was a great place 
to grow up for Mary and me, but our nearest 
neighbors were Cheyenne, and while we got along 
pretty well, I wanted to see more of the country 
and more folks like me. Bighorn Lake seemed 
pretty far away from the world in my mother’s 
books and, by sixteen, it was clear to me that I was 
going to end up a farmer for life if I stayed there. 
Of course, nobody called me Montana when I lived 
there…it just seemed to catch on after. 
I got my first real job as a cowhand on a large 
cattle ranch under the Tetons. The ranch bordered 
the Snake River, not far outside a little town called 
Jackson Hole. I told the boss that I didn’t have a lot 
of experience with cattle but was eager to learn. He 
took a chance on me. A few of the older hands 
showed me the tricks and I learned fast.   
After three months at the “Circle R” I was doing 
pretty well when near-disaster struck. I lost my old 
John E. Richman 
 
4
horse to a prairie dog hole. He broke his leg and 
had to be put down. A cowboy needs a good horse, 
and losing mine would have put me out of work if 
it hadn’t been for my boss. I guess he’d taken a 
liken’ to me. Dan Turner ran the ranch and he 
loaned me the money to buy a beautiful colt sired 
by his own horse.  
I found out later that the colt was promised to 
Dan’s son, Drew. But Drew was killed in a droving 
accident the year before and when the colt was 
born, Dan couldn’t bear to sell him. It took me 
another year to work off the loan, but it was well 
worth it. I named the colt Spirit, and I knew right 
off he was special. What I didn’t know, was that he 
was to become a big part of my life.   
After almost two years at the Circle R I’d 
become a pretty good cowboy. Dan didn’t want to 
lose me and I really didn’t want to leave, but I’d 
heard that a good hand could make a lot of money 
moving cattle between Texas and Oklahoma, 
through Indian country, and I wanted to try it. I 
wanted to see more of the world and I liked the 
idea of making more money.   
So it happened that early one morning, I packed 
up and headed south. I didn’t know exactly where I 
was going, but with the two-hundred and twenty-
two dollars I’d saved, and what was now one of the 
fastest horses in the territory, I looked forward to 
the adventure. 
It was cold and rainy the morning Spirit and I 
left. It was only mid-October, but the winds of 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
5
winter were already beginning to stir in the 
mountains, and there was a chill in the air that 
went right through you. The Snake had swollen to 
the point that I gave some thought to turning back 
and waiting for better weather. The water was fast 
and we had to search some time for a wide section 
where I figured the water would slow down 
enough for us to get across. We finally found one a 
mile or so down-river from the trail. Spirit isn’t 
fond of swimming anyway and was pretty spooked 
as we entered the water. He balked a few times 
when the bottom dropped away. Halfway across, 
with the wind and rain pushing up my shirt-tail, 
Spirit gave up trying to walk the bottom and began 
to swim. We’d barely left and already my saddle 
and pack were soaked! But Spirit’s strong legs kept 
going for the several minutes it took to reach the 
other side. I’m not usually superstitious, but had to 
wonder with this ugly start, if God wasn’t trying to 
tell me something.  
Over the next week, Spirit and I worked our way 
down the eastern edge of the Rockies. The endless 
rain blended the trails and fields into swamps and 
ponds. We were constantly wet. We camped each 
night on the highest ground we could find, but had 
increasing trouble finding dry wood for our fires. 
On the seventh day, the rain stopped and the sun 
came out. We dried out and things started to look a 
little better. I began to enjoy the scenery that only a 
few days before had been scary and threatening. 
I’d never been south of the miner’s camp before, 
John E. Richman 
 
6
so everything that I saw, I was seeing for the first 
time. I guessed this was the new world my 
mother’d talked about. 
After two weeks on the trail, we came to the 
little town of Green River. I was glad to see 
civilization again. Green River was just another 
little mining town, with a church, two hotels and 
several saloons, but it looked pretty big to me. The 
livery was on the west side of town and the 
blacksmith said he’d keep Spirit cleaned and fed 
for thirty-cents a day. The place looked clean and I 
figured he deserved a little special treatment as 
much as I did, so I paid in advance for two days, 
grabbed my bedroll and walked into town.    
That night I checked into the Baxter Hotel and 
took a bath to get the mud and rain off me. I went 
right to bed and didn’t get up until noon the next 
day. 
That evening, I was sitting in the hotel saloon 
enjoying my first cool beer in weeks. I’d been in 
saloons before, in Jackson Hole, but nothing like 
this one. Dozens of men, dressed in all kinds of 
fancy clothes, mingled with young and old women 
who wore the most colorful dresses I’d ever seen. 
In the corner was a piano and a real good player. 
He played non-stop, and fast, too. I couldn’t 
imagine where he learned all those songs!   
While I sat there, taking in all these new sights 
and sounds, I was aware that two different poker 
games were being played at the tables behind me. 
At one point, in the midst of the saloon noise and 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
7
activity, the piano player stopped cold. The crowd 
turned quiet. I looked around to see what had 
caused this oddity and noticed that everybody else 
was looking toward the door. There, standing in 
the center of the swinging doors, was one of the 
largest men I’d ever seen. A giant…bearded and 
dressed in skins. I thought to myself, if the sun had 
been out, he’d have surely blocked it and plunged 
us into darkness.   
By the sudden silence, it was obvious that this 
man was either greatly respected or sorely feared. I 
was afraid to guess which.   
The calm was broken when somebody behind 
me shouted, “Hey…Captain Daggot!” The giant 
just nodded as he waded through the crowd and 
took up a chair at the bar next to me. 
 He ordered a bottle of whiskey and, in a voice 
as rough as he looked, told the rest of the folks to 
stop staring at him and go back to what they were 
doing. Slowly, the crowd did just that, and 
resumed their previous commotion.  
Now fully settled, he turned and looked right at 
me. “I thought I told you to stop looking at me.”   
Without daring to respond, I quickly turned back 
to my glass, staring into it, trying to find the 
courage to get up and move. “Sorry, sir,” was all I 
could muster up as a response. 
“You’re new around here, aren’t you boy? 
Where do you hail from?”   
Not wanting to bother him any further, I turned 
back toward him and noticed I was staring at his 
John E. Richman 
 
8
chest. His head was somewhere higher than mine, 
so I had to look up to properly answer. “I’m from 
Bighorn Lake, Montana, sir. I’m a cowboy.” 
Captain Daggot glared at me as if I’d insulted his 
mother. Now I was really beginning to get nervous. 
After a long pause, his face opened up in a giant 
smile and he responded, “Well, cowboy from 
Montana, you’re a long way from home. Is that 
butter-brown horse down at the livery yours?”   
“Yes sir. That’s Spirit. He’s the fastest horse in 
the territory.” With that he laughed and told me 
that was quite a boast since, as a newcomer, I 
couldn’t have any way of knowing how fast the 
local horses were in Green River. “But then again, 
he’s a fine looking horse and you might just be 
right.”  
At least this odd giant seemed to know some-
thing about horses.   
As rough as he looked, I could see he had a 
glimmer in his eye when he spoke. It gave me 
some comfort this might be more a “gentle” giant 
than the rest of the saloon had let on. Over the next 
couple of hours, and several more beers, Captain 
Daggot explained to me how he knew his 
horseflesh so well. Seems he spent a career in the 
Cavalry, fighting everything from Indians to 
Confederates, retiring as a Captain after the war. 
After that, he’d spent some time in Kansas before 
settling in the country around Green River, where 
he hunted just enough buffalo to make a living.  
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
9
In the course of our conversation, he told me he 
was leaving in the morning for a buffalo hunt five 
days ride east and invited me to follow along. “It 
won’t get you to Oklahoma, but it’s on the way, so 
it won’t cost any time and I could use another fast 
horse.” Truth is I was getting tired of traveling 
alone, so the offer sounded good. We agreed to 
meet up at the livery at sunrise, packed and ready 
to move out. 
He then bid me good night and walked out the 
door, drawing nearly as much attention from the 
crowd as he had on the way in. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10 
Chapter 2 
 
 
 
 
 
“Irish Dan” McVey was, at best, a drifter. At 
worst you could rightfully call him a criminal. 
He’d been in the territory since the war, though 
nobody was aware that he’d ever actually served. 
Given his general disdain for the law, he probably 
didn’t. Deserter, if at all. But, as bad apples tend to 
attract more bad apples, Irish Dan had recently 
assembled a small gang of n’er-do-wells, much 
like himself. As self-appointed leader, he’d been 
successful in directing a series of low-level 
robberies and assaults throughout the Cheyenne 
territory. They were beginning to be thought of as 
a pretty mean bunch.  
Lately they’d become adept at robbing from 
ranches while the owners were away. Starting 
small with tableware and occasionally livestock, 
their criminal appetites were growing and they 
were becoming ever more bold…and more danger-
ous. 
Contrary to what you might read, most folks in 
the Wyoming territory in 1885 weren’t gun-
fighters. Most didn’t even carry guns. Those that 
did, did so mostly for hunting. Even fewer 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
11 
carried handguns, as they were not very accurate 
beyond fifty feet. But Irish Dan was a exception to 
the rule. In recent months, he and his gang had 
been arming up with both Winchesters and 
handguns.  
The morning of November fourth found Irish 
Dan’s gang working their way north to the stage 
trail, from a night’s mischief involving two barns 
and a ranch house. Their saddlebags were filled 
with ill-gotten merchandise consisting of near 
forty-five dollars in cash, a handful of gold coins, a 
set of silver plate tableware, a custom made 
hunting knife, and a finely carved wooden box. 
That was the pride of their night’s work. The box 
contained a matched set of silver, engraved, Colt 
45 revolvers and they were beautiful! They’d run 
across them quite unexpectedly inside an old 
saddlebag that was hanging on a barn post at a 
small ranch some ten miles behind them. Irish Dan, 
a man who knew his guns, estimated them to be 
worth hundreds.   
With his newfound prize, McVey planned to 
leave the area for one of the way stations on the 
stagecoach line and sell them to some unsuspect-
ing traveler. The rest of the night’s loot could be 
traded in the usual way, either in Laramie or in any 
of the camps they’d run across along the way. 
The morning dawned bright for a change, and 
McVey’s gang made the stage trail around nine-
thirty. “We’ll go west,” he grumbled. “There’s a 
station about an hour’s ride from here.” That was 
John E. Richman 
 
12 
all he said but it was sufficient instruction for his 
partners in crime who, having been up all night, 
were too tired and hungry to argue. But, early as it 
was, McVey was already thinking. After last 
night’s raids, he harbored the concern that the 
owner of those Colt’s might return to find them 
gone and be persuaded to saddle up and come 
looking for them. Or as bad, that word of the loss 
of these special Colts might travel and catch up to 
them. 
Within the hour, just as McVey had predicted, 
they arrived at the way station along the stage road. 
On hearing the horses, Amos Carey walked out 
front to see who had arrived.  
“You boys surprised me,” he offered. “We don’t 
expect a stage until noon and we don’t get too 
many other visitors. Feel free to water your horses 
and come in out of the sun to freshen up.”  
“Thanks, we’ll do just that,” McVey responded. 
“We’ve been up all night and we’re dead tired. 
You say there’s a stage expected around noon?” 
“Should be, but you can never tell with stages. 
Might be sooner… might be later.” 
After watering the horses, McVey and his men 
followed Amos into the station and ordered a 
round of waters. “Where’s your brother? I thought 
this was a two man operation,” observed McVey.   
“Oh, Isaak should be back shortly. He went 
hunting over the ridge this morning and I haven’t 
seen him since. I hope he gets something ‘cause 
we’re getting a little low on grub. So…I can’t offer 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
13 
you anything to eat but you and your men are free 
to freshen up and rest a while if you want. Of 
course we don’t have beds but you’ll find that the 
ground under the big pine in back is mighty soft on 
a tired back.”   
“Maybe we’ll just take you up on that, but before 
we do, I got a little proposition for you. Seems I 
recently came into a nice pair of silver Colts and, 
as it is, they’re for sale.” McVey then walked 
outside and returned with a dark, carved wooden 
box, laying it on top of the cold stove. Amos Carey 
had no need for guns and no money to buy them 
with, but wandered over anyway to see what the 
stranger’d brought in.   
McVey stood back letting Amos move his 
fingers over the polished wood box and the silver 
latch.   
“That’s OK, open it” whispered McVey.   
With the curiosity of a child, Amos gently lifted 
the latch and opened the box. Inside, nestled in a 
pile of blue velvet, were two of the finest revolvers 
he’d ever had the pleasure to see.   
“They’re really something,” said Amos as he 
reached to lift one from its velvet cradle.  
“Hold it” McVey grew louder. “That’s close 
enough. I don’t want you gettin’ ‘em dirty.”   
Amos quickly removed his hand and turned back 
to McVey. “I hope you can stay long enough for 
Isaak to see these Mister. He’s got the gun sense 
and I don’t think I could do justice to describing 
John E. Richman 
 
14 
‘em. But I hope you know we don’t have need for 
such finery and no money to buy them anyway.” 
“That brings me to my proposition,” answered 
McVey. I’d like to wait out your next stage and see 
if any of the travelers would be interested in 
buying them.”  
As Amos was about to respond, the door opened 
and in plodded Isaak with muddy boots and a large 
dead rabbit in each hand. “Amos, get a knife. You 
gotta clean these rabbits before they turn bad.”  
As Isaak looked around the room, he saw the 
visitors whose horses he’d seen out front. “Looks 
like I interrupted something. What goes on here?” 
Amos responded, “Mr. McVey here is looking 
for a buyer for his hand guns,” pointing to the 
opened box with the Colts. “Wants to wait out the 
noon stage and see if there’s a buyer aboard.” 
Isaak placed the rabbits on the table and walked 
over to the stove. He stared at the Colts in their box 
for near a minute, speechless. He finally looked up 
and turned to McVey. “May I ask where you 
obtained these, Mr. McVey? They look somewhat 
familiar.” 
McVey didn’t like being questioned and fumbled 
putting the cover back on the box. “Won ‘em in a 
poker game a while back. They’re too pretty to 
use, so I’m looking for a buyer.”  
Isaak pondered McVey’s response and answer-
ed, “Poker, huh? Must have been a pretty high 
stakes game.” 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
15 
“Yeah, yeah,” replied McVey, “Are you going to 
let us wait out the stage here or do we have to stop 
it ourselves?” 
“Doesn’t make no never mind to me,” answered 
Isaak, who turned to pick up his rabbits and the 
skinning knife that Amos had placed on the table 
with them. He walked out the door with nothing 
more to say. 
With that, McVey sat down in a chair and 
poured himself a cup of water from the pitcher on 
the table. “Not very sociable, is he?” he said to 
Amos. 
“That’s not like him Mister, but he’s probably 
tired from chasing those rabbits. You and your 
friends can wait in here or sleep under the pines. 
The stage should be along in a few hours.” 
After a few minutes of puttering in the sink, 
Amos excused himself and went outside to help his 
brother clean rabbits.  
The younger of McVey’s men spoke up. “What 
the devil do you think of that? You suppose he 
recognized those Colts? What are you going to do 
about it McVey?” 
“Nothin!” McVey sniped back. “Not a damn 
thing. Even if he did, we’ll be long gone by the 
time he could tell anybody.” 
Another of McVey’s men spoke up. “Just the 
same, it doesn’t seem too friendly around here. 
Maybe we ought to just move on.” 
“I’ll decide when we move on,” McVey’s 
response was gruff. He knew there was some risk 
John E. Richman 
 
16 
now in staying, but didn’t want it to show in front 
of his men. He moved over to look out the 
window, but didn’t see either of the Carey brothers 
in the yard. “Mighty quiet out there. Maybe I’ll go 
for a little walk.”  
As McVey entered the yard, he heard horses 
rustle behind the station. He walked around the 
corner just in time to see both brothers mounting 
their horses. The rabbits were still in one piece on 
a nearby table.  
“WHERE DO YOU BOYS THINK YOU’RE 
GOING?” shouted McVey, who had now drawn 
his handgun from his holster and was holding it on 
both Isaak and Amos. “Looks like my boys were 
right. Maybe you two should get off those horses 
and come back inside for a chat.”   
One more second and the Carey brothers could 
have ridden off, but they knew they couldn’t beat a 
drawn pistol, so they both dismounted as instructed 
and headed back around to the front of the station. 
McVey stayed a few paces behind, keeping them 
in his sight. “And take that knife out of your pants 
and drop it the ground.”   
Isaak McVey slowly pulled up his shirt and, with 
two fingers, removed the knife that had been 
hidden under it, allowing it to drop to the ground. 
As the brothers were about to reentered the 
station door, Amos apparently panicked and started 
to run. McVey followed him with his eyes and 
pulled the trigger. A loud “Crack” exploded from 
his pistol and Amos Carey dropped to the ground. 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
17 
It was clear to all that Amos’ decision to run had 
just cost him his life.  
“Dammit,” cursed McVey, “where did he think 
he was running to?” By this time the other three of 
McVey’s men were fully alert and on their feet. 
One spoke up. 
 “You never said anything about killin’ McVey. 
“I didn’t sign up for this.”  
“Shut up,” was the only reply the nervous 
McVey could muster up.  
With all eyes fixed on the body, no one noticed 
that brother Isaak had, himself, fallen to his knees 
and was slow-crawling over to where he had just 
dropped the knife. In a suddenness that startled the 
other men, Isaak grabbed the knife from the 
ground, raised it, and in a single motion, threw it at 
McVey, just missing his face.   
On seeing the knife pass by his head, McVey’s 
reaction was just as sudden. He pointed his pistol 
at the remaining Carey brother and again pulled the 
trigger. Crack! Isaak dropped, joining Amos in his 
journey to heaven. 
This time there was no quick comment at all 
from McVey or any of his men. Just silence. They 
must have known their lives had just been changed 
forever.
 
 
18 
Chapter 3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sarah Rogers was supposed to have been a 
schoolteacher by now. She’d had already complet-
ed most of two years of teacher’s college in 
Philadelphia, but with the news that her Uncle 
Stuart had taken sick out west in California, Sara’s 
father and mother decided to pull up stakes and 
move west to help out. The trip, this late in the 
year, had already been long and uncomfortable. 
The Cheyenne-Laramie stage was working its way 
west, an hour out of Laramie, carrying Sarah, her 
father Tom, and mother inside. They were crowded 
onto two wooden seats just large enough to hold 
the three of them, and a very large trunk.  
All the discomfort aside, the weather was 
surprisingly good for early November and they’d 
had a good sleep the night before in Cheyenne. All 
in all, Tom considered that things could be worse. 
Since none of them had ever been west of the 
Pennsylvania mountains, they were most anxious 
about the life they were entering. Mrs. Rogers 
hoped it would as satisfying as her life had been as 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
19 
a constable’s wife in Philadelphia. Tom enjoyed 
his police work but had always harbored a wander-
lust. Maybe he was bored, but he’d talked of 
moving west for years.   
Law officers are usually practical men, not 
dreamers. Tom Rogers was a little bit of both. His 
only discomfort came from the fact that realizing 
his dream had to, by necessity, involve the two 
most important women in his life. He feared more 
for their comfort and safety than he did his own.   
It was about noon when the driver yelled back, 
“WAY STATION IN FIFTEEN MINUTES!” It 
would be good to get off these hard seats for even 
a few minutes, thought Sarah -- a sentiment no 
doubt shared by her parents.   
Stagecoach way stations were usually not much 
more than shacks, with a well, an outhouse, and 
wash-water for horses and travelers. Occasionally 
they would have some food, but not always. The 
one coming up was better than most.  
It was operated by a pair of Swedish brothers, 
Isaak and Amos Carey. Both good men and usually 
quick to welcome the several stages that came 
through each week with good cold water and old-
fashioned western hospitality.   
Moments later, the stage pulled up in front, in a 
cloud of dust. But the driver thought things seemed 
a little different this time. Neither Isaak nor Amos 
came out to meet them and, after the dust had 
settled, a strange silence hung over the place. 
John E. Richman 
 
20 
The driver, a thick man with thinning hair who 
referred to himself as “Red,” set the brake and 
jumped to the ground, ignoring Tom Rogers’ 
request that he open the stage door to let he and his 
family out. Red quickly disappeared inside the 
station. 
  Having to reach out and turn the door latch 
himself, Tom Rogers was about to exit the stage 
unassisted. As he placed his foot on the stage step, 
preparing to make the jump, Red reappeared 
hastily exiting the station and informed the family 
that this would not be a good stop. “We need to 
move on,” was all he said. Needless to say, the 
Rogers family didn’t receive the news well.   
“What do you mean move on? We need a break 
and so do your horses.” But Tom Rogers might as 
well have been talking to himself. Red had already 
jumped up to the driver’s bench, released the 
brake, and set the stage in motion. Rogers had to 
quickly jump back up on the step and hold on for 
dear life until he could swing himself back inside 
the coach.   
Twenty minutes down the rough trail, the stage 
again stopped. Red dismounted and walked back to 
the stage door, peering in as if to provide a little 
more information about their hasty departure just 
minutes before. Tom was still angry at the way 
they’d left in such a hurry. But when Red opened 
the stage door, Nel could see he didn’t look right. 
She put her hand on Tom’s arm to hold him back.   
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
21 
“They were dead,” he said, having trouble 
getting the words out. “They were all dead!” 
“Who was dead?” demanded Tom.   
“They were -- the two brothers who ran that 
station. Blood all over. Not a fit sight for women-
folk. Indians I reckon. Either way I think we 
should push on to Price’s Station if you all can 
make it.” 
The Rogers family began their journey west 
three weeks before, when they boarded the train in 
Philadelphia for St. Louis. They’d been told that 
life in the west was going to be different…rougher, 
dirtier and maybe even dangerous. Over the past 
three weeks they’d been roughed up some and had 
surely experienced dirtier. However, this was the 
first time they had to deal with the latter. Given the 
shocking news, they agreed to abide by the driver’s 
decision and move out of there as quickly as 
possible, though none of them had any concept of 
how far “Price’s Station” would be. 
The trip had suddenly taken on a different feel. 
The little family from back east sat in silence for 
most of the next hour, while Mrs. Rogers eyes 
remained locked on her husband’s. He wished he 
knew what she was thinking, but was afraid to 
break the silence and ask. Sarah was also 
concerned, but seemed to take it in stride better. 
And though he didn’t want it to show, Tom was 
the most concerned. He’d spent years dealing with 
such crime back east and had hoped that was part 
John E. Richman 
 
22 
of his past now. What had he gotten his family 
into? 
 
By the time I got down to the livery Captain 
Daggot was already saddled and ready to go. 
“Thought you’d never get here! Darn near left 
without you,” he muttered.  
I wondered if the morning’s Captain Daggot 
would be the tough guy that had brought last 
night’s saloon to a whisper, or the talkative buffalo 
hunter who’d later spent a pleasant hour with me 
over a few beers? While these questions lingered in 
my mind, I noticed we weren’t alone.   
“This is Whiteplume. He’s Arapaho. Best tracker 
in the territory. Just call him Whitey and stay out 
of his way. He can be a little moody.”   
“He can be a little moody!” I thought. Looked a 
little like the Captain and Whitey might share that 
same trait. This looked to be a hard group to warm 
up to. 
As Daggot spoke his name, “Whitey” looked 
over his shoulder at me and just smiled. I smiled 
back but couldn’t reconcile Daggot’s warning. 
Looked like a smile to me. He didn’t seem to be at 
all moody, but I guess I couldn’t judge him so 
quick. Time would tell. Didn’t matter much to me. 
I told myself if things got a little to tense with my 
fellow travelers, I could just head out on my own 
again. 
 When Whitey mounted his paint, I also got a 
quick peek at the big knife he had belted around 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
23 
his waist. It must have been fifteen inches long! 
Smile or not, for now I thought I’d heed the 
Captain’s caution and stay out of his way. 
The Captain’s horse was well suited to him. One 
of the biggest I’d ever seen though maybe a little 
beyond his prime. Still, clearly able to carry this 
giant of a man with his long buffalo gun strapped 
to the saddle. A giant in skins, an Indian tracker 
and a cowboy! We must have looked a sight as we 
left the livery and headed east.   
It was foggy when we left Green River but the 
fog burned off by mid-morning and the sun began 
to warm our bones. I knew from the maps I’d 
studied at home, that the town of Laramie was on 
our route east. I asked if we were going through it, 
but the Captain said he preferred to avoid it. I 
didn’t pursue it any further but wondered if he’d 
had a bad experience there in the past. It didn’t 
matter to me as I supposed I’d be seeing a lot of 
towns on my trip to Texas.  
It was early afternoon when we arrived at our 
first stop, a little stagecoach station Daggot said 
was run by a man named Price. 
We watered our horses and followed Daggot in 
to meet Mr. Price. He was tall and lanky, appearing 
to be in his mid-forties. He seemed to know 
Daggot well because they immediately began 
carrying on about his last visit. Turns out Daggot 
used his station from time to time, to sell buffalo 
skins to travelers.  
John E. Richman 
 
24 
Mr. Price yelled out for Whitey to come on in 
after watering the horses. When he did, we all sat 
down for a good drink of water and I listened while 
the rest of them talked about old times. Mr. Price 
served us some bread he had just baked in the 
morning and told us to eat up before the stage 
arrived. He would need what would be left of the 
loaf and the space for the travelers, due to arrive in 
about half an hour. 
It wasn’t ten minutes later, the Cheyenne stage 
arrived -- early. In keeping with the traditions of 
running a way station, Mr. Price went out the door 
to greet them. I guessed that was our signal to 
finish up, clean up, and disappear. 
After I cleared the table, I heard a commotion 
out front between the stage driver and Mr. Price. 
By then, Captain Daggot had left the station and 
joined in, and they were all taking real serious. As 
I walked out to see what all the excitement was 
about, the stage door swung open and out came the 
prettiest girl I think I’d ever seen. Behind her, a 
middle-aged man and a good looking woman. The 
man joined in the conversation briefly before he 
and the women headed toward the station house. 
My eyes followed the girl in the white dress until 
she disappeared behind the door. I snapped back to 
reality when Daggot yelled to Whitey and me to 
hold up. Something was wrong and I was getting 
real curious about what it was.  
As I got closer to the conversation, they were 
talking about two men who’d been shot in the next 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
25 
way station. Apparently, the driver had come on 
their bodies when they stopped there earlier in the 
morning. The driver was so upset, he just left them 
where he’d found them.   
The morning sun was getting warm so the 
conversation moved into the station. The women 
were excused to a back room to rest while all the 
men joined in the meeting. As much as I wanted to 
see more of that girl in the white dress, my 
curiosity got the best of me and I stayed to listen. 
At one point Mr. Price said they should send 
Red, the driver, on to Laramie to get a telegram off 
to the Marshal’s office in Cheyenne, informing 
him of the killings.   
The Captain believed that would take too long 
and by the time the Marshal got to the Carey 
Station, the killers, were they not already, would 
be long gone.   
There was also some guessing as to who might 
have done it and why? While Red maintained that 
it looked like the work of Indians, Mr. Price 
observed that station was run by the Carey 
brothers, Isaak and Amos…“who didn’t have 
much and certainly not enough for Indians or 
anyone else to kill them over.”   
“No, doesn’t sound like Indians to me,” argued 
Daggot. “I know the Crow in the area and they’ve 
been peaceful for years. It doesn’t set well with me 
that it’s Crow.”   
No matter, someone would have to go to that 
station and get them or bury them. Mr. Price 
John E. Richman 
 
26 
offered to ride to Laramie to notify the stage 
company and get a telegram off to Cheyenne to 
send someone out.  
“But,” Price added looking directly at Daggot, 
“at best it’ll take some time for that to happen, so it 
will be left to you to go and investigate, while any 
evidence is still fresh.” 
Having been a lawman back east, Rogers 
couldn’t help but take an interest in the investiga-
tion, though he remained more concerned for the 
safety of his wife and daughter. He told Daggot 
that their journey to their sick relative’s place in 
California required them to bring along everything 
they had. Their entire life was contained in the 
trunks on the stage. He would need to protect them 
as well as his wife and daughter.   
Turning to Mr. Price, Rogers stated, “I’m awful 
sorry about those two men, but this stage company 
owes me and my family some protection and I 
think that would be best served if you took us to 
Laramie with you.’ 
“Everybody slow down,” responded Daggot, 
who seemed to have taken charge of the situation. 
“I don’t think the Crow had any part in this, but I 
won’t know for sure until I see the bodies. In the 
meantime, Price, you need to ride to Laramie and 
notify both the Marshal’s office and the stage 
company. We can’t have stages continue to drop in 
on that station. On top of everything else, they’ll 
mess up any evidence that might be there and then 
we’ll never know what happened.” 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
27 
Rogers spoke up. “If Price is going to Laramie I 
don’t see any reason why we can’t join him.” 
At that, Daggot began to lose patience with Mr. 
Rogers. “The reason is that we’ll need the stage to 
transport the bodies. Price, here, will be going to 
Laramie on horseback! I suspect that won’t work 
for you, your family, and all your possessions.” 
“Well,” Rogers responded, losing his patience as 
well, “if you’re all going back to the scene of the 
killings, what are we supposed to do? Wait for the 
killers to come here and kill us?  
“I understand your concern, sir,” replied Daggot. 
“You said you were a lawman, right? I take it 
you’ve investigated crime scenes before?”  
“Certainly… thousands of ‘em,” responded 
Rogers, “What are you asking?” 
Daggot continued, “I just thought that without 
the Marshall or a Deputy, we might be able to use 
your experience in looking the scene over.”  
Bothered, but at the same time flattered, Rogers 
responded, “You might be right, but there’s no way 
I’m going to take my wife and daughter back there 
and there’s no way I’m going to leave them here. 
So what you propose would be impossible.”  
Without really working the words out in my 
head, I blurted out, “I’ll stay with ‘em! I mean if 
that’s alright with you Mr. Rogers.”   
The more Daggot thought about taking Tom 
Rogers with him, the more he became convinced it 
could be useful. 
John E. Richman 
 
28 
“They’ll be safe right here with Montana and if 
we leave now, we could be back by sundown… 
should only take three to four hours. I’m not sure 
there’s much else we can do there anyway. What 
do you say, Rogers? It’s not Philadelphia, but how 
about being a lawman again for a few hours?” 
“I don’t like it but give me a minute to discuss it 
with my wife. Incidentally, how do I know they 
would be any safer with this young man ‘Montana’ 
than they would on their own?”  
“I can vouch for him,” replied Captain Daggot, 
“and Price here can vouch for me.” With that, Mr. 
Price nodded his head and Mr. Rogers walked 
outside to talk it over with his family. 
After a few minutes of muffled conversation, 
Mr. Rogers returned and said he would go with 
Daggot and Red to the other station but needed 
Daggot’s assurance that he could get back in time 
to get his family to Laramie that night. Daggot 
agreed. “Shouldn’t be a problem.”  
Turning back to me, Daggot said, “Montana, I 
stretched my neck out for you here son, so don’t let 
me down. I’m leaving you a handgun which, along 
with your Winchester, should be all the firepower 
you need to keep these women safe. Mind your 
manners and stay put. We should be back before 
dusk. If we’re not, come sun-up, put a team 
together and take them on to Laramie yourself. 
Daggot then turned to Rogers and asked if he 
wanted to ride inside the stage, “…or up top?”  
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
29 
“I’d just as soon ride inside, out of the dust, but 
take it slow -- I’m already sore from this morning’s 
ride. Let’s just get this over with.” 
  At that, the four near-strangers -- Captain 
Daggot, Whitey, Red the driver, and Mr. Rogers of 
Philadelphia, all boarded the stage and rode off 
across the open field, down the east trail. 
I watched them until they’d disappeared from 
sight behind the trees. I then walked back into the 
station and was quickly met by two of the coldest 
stares I could remember. I guessed my suggestion 
to stay with them wasn’t as popular with the ladies 
as it was with me. I suddenly kind of wished I’d 
kept my mouth shut. 
  
 
 
30 
Chapter 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
After shooting both Carey brothers in cold 
blood, Irish Dan McVey told his men to pull the 
bodies into the station and close the door. He 
quickly restored the prized pistols to their fine box 
and put it away in his saddlebag. He then 
instructed his men to move out.   
But, instead of heading west, he started out in a 
southerly direction. He thought it best to avoid the 
stage road for a while, where they’d more likely be 
spotted by other travelers. By heading south, they 
could pick up Copper Creek and follow it west, 
paralleling the stage road. Once sufficiently west, 
they could come back north, putting them some 
distance from the Carey station.   
After half an hour of hard riding, they came to 
Copper Creek and turned west on the creek trail. 
Davy, the youngest of McVey’s gang, voicing the 
concerns of the others, finally asked McVey why 
they were taking such a strange route?  
Bothered again by his gang’s lack of trust, 
McVey angrily responded, “We need to get to 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
31 
Laramie tonight but I don’t want to take the stage 
road. Just follow me and we’ll get there when we 
get there.” As is often the case, what McVey 
lacked in leadership, he more than made up for in 
his ability to annoy people. 
So the rag-tag gang headed west alongside the 
creek. With no instrument to help him navigate, 
McVey wasn’t sure when or where to turn north 
again, so he waited until it just felt right. An hour 
later it must have felt right because he turned the 
gang back north, believing they were well down 
the road from both the Carey Station and the next 
one west, the Price Station. He figured the next 
stop should be Laramie but he would soon discover 
that he had miscalculated and wasn’t as far west as 
he’d hoped. Irish Tom McVey and his gang were 
not several stations down the trail as he’d planned, 
but headed right into Price’s Station. 
 
Adam Price wasn’t used to riding horseback, so 
while he felt the need to get to Laramie as quickly 
as possible, his aging body forced him to take it 
slow. Once there, he planned to go immediately to 
the stage company office and notify them of the 
killings. Then, if there was no Marshal or Deputy 
in town, he would go to the telegraph office and 
get word out to the Marshal’s office in Cheyenne. 
Hopefully, they could dispatch a deputy right away 
so he could get back to his station and the rest of 
them could go on about their lives. 
John E. Richman 
 
32 
In the meantime, things hadn’t warmed up much 
back at his Station. If they spoke at all, the two 
ladies kept their conversation to themselves. I 
couldn’t tell if it was me that bothered them, or just 
the fates that put us together. 
Daggot and the others had been gone half an 
hour and the silence in the station was so thick you 
could taste it. I had to get out of their company for 
breath of air. I offered to get some fresh water 
from the well.   
“That would be nice,” answered Sarah.   
Well, if I couldn’t make conversation with both 
of them, at least she wasn’t afraid to talk to me. I 
grabbed the water jug and walked outside to the 
well.   
The sun was beginning to get low in the sky and 
I wondered what Daggot and the men would find 
back at the Carey Station. Would they be able to 
tell how those men died? Would Mr. Rogers be of 
any help? What if they didn’t return by sundown? 
I’d promised the Captain that if they didn’t return 
by sun-up I’d take the ladies on to Laramie, but I 
was sure hoping that wasn’t going to be necessary. 
Mrs. Rogers didn’t seem any too happy with the 
situation already, and having her husband fail to 
return when expected would likely not improve her 
mood.  
“We’re really not mad at you, you know.” I 
turned to see Sarah walking up behind me.   
“Oh, I know. This must be hard on you both,” I 
offered. 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
33 
“Yes, the trip has been hard on us -- on Mother 
in particular. She’s no wall-flower, but she left a 
wonderful life back east and I’m not sure she 
realized how difficult this would be.” 
“Well,” I responded, “the West can be a rough 
place, but it can also be a beautiful place. Don’t 
worry, I’m sure your father will be back soon and 
by this time tomorrow, you’ll all be in Laramie and 
all this will just be a bad memory.”  
“Maybe not all bad.” she replied.   
I didn’t quite get her meaning, but having filled 
the jug, I tied off the bucket and turned to carry the 
water back toward the station. Sarah took a 
moment looking off to the west, across the 
openness of the station lot, over the small pine 
stand that bordered it and over the prairie hills to 
the distant mountains that made up the spine of the 
Rockies. And for the first time, I could take a good 
look at her. She was as pretty as those ladies in the 
magazines. She had a little hat on but I could see 
that her hair was the color of a wheat field. Her 
eyes sparkled when she spoke and I thought she 
was the prettiest thing I’d ever seen.   
I felt the need to comfort her and tell her 
everything would be all right, but I knew that was 
just my heart talkin’. I really didn’t know if 
everything would be alright, and her mother, who 
was now standing in the doorway, seemed to prefer 
that I keep my distance.  
“It’s a big country out there isn’t it,” she said, 
breaking the brief silence.  
John E. Richman 
 
34 
“I suppose so,” I responded. “I’ve only seen a 
piece of it myself, but it does seem to go on 
forever.”  
We both walked quietly back to the station and I 
offered to pour them both a nice cool drink. To my 
surprise, it was Sarah’s mother that spoke up, 
offering to do it for me.  
“Thank you, ma’m,” I replied. “I’d like that very 
much.”  
With that, Mrs. Rogers located three cups and 
poured water for each of us. Just as I was about to 
put my cup to my lips, I heard horses. 
It was too early for the Captain, Red, Mr. Rogers 
and Whitey to have returned. I wondered who our 
visitors could be?  
When I got to the door, I could see that it wasn’t 
our stage. The four horses coming up on the station 
were being ridden by men I didn’t recognize. 
Moreover, they each had handguns strapped to 
their waists and rifles on their saddles.   
“Do you recognize them?” asked Mrs. Rogers, as 
if I might have.  
“I don’t think so, ma’m. I don’t recall ever 
seeing any of them before. They’re probably just 
cowboys, passing through.” I hoped I was right.  
“Hey in there!” shouted one of the men. 
“Anybody home?” 
I suggested that Sarah and Mrs. Rogers stay in 
the station and went out the door to meet them.  
“Station master isn’t here. I’m just watchin’ it 
for him. Is there anything I can do for you men?” 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
35 
“Well,” replied the same man, “My name is 
McVey and me and my men have come a long 
way. We’re pretty tired. We need some water and 
grub before moving on. Can you help us out?”   
“Like I said, this isn’t my station. I’d like to help 
you out, but there’s no food left here and there’s a 
stage due anytime now. You can help yourselves to 
all the water you want, but unless the stage brings 
some, I’ll be needing some food myself.”  
Disregarding my response, all four men dis-
mounted and commenced lashing their horses to 
the front rail. Again, I noticed that each was 
carrying a handgun, which struck me as a bit 
unusual. I thought I’d try again…a little harder. 
“The well’s over there and the water’s nice and 
cold.”  
This time McVey answered in a more hostile 
tone, “Maybe you didn’t hear me clear, sonny. I 
said we need more than water. We need some 
food.” 
“I’ll say it again. I’m expecting a stage shortly 
and I can’t feed you. You might be able to find a 
few potatoes in the stable but that’s the best I can 
do. If you can find any in there, help yourselves.”  
I hoped they’d water up and move out without 
finding out about the two ladies, but it wasn’t 
working out that way. Now I was getting worried. 
As I nervously contemplated my next move, all of 
a sudden, I heard Mrs. Rogers behind me at the 
station door, yelling at the top of her lungs. 
John E. Richman 
 
36 
  “I THOUGHT I TOLD YOU TO GET A 
BUCKET OF WATER YOU LAZY GOOD FOR 
NOTHIN! NOW STOP WASTING TIME WITH 
THOSE TRAIL BUMS AND GET THAT 
WATER, YOU HEAR!” 
You could have knocked me over with a feather! 
Not only did she reveal herself to these men, but 
she was acting like a crazy lady! What happened to 
that reserved and polite lady I’d just left a minute 
before? And what did she think was she doing?   
“Yes ma’m,” was all I could muster up as a 
response, whereupon I headed straight for the well 
to fill the bucket. All the while, Mrs. Rogers 
remained in the doorway with her hat off and her 
eyes fixed on me. I didn’t know what she was 
doing but decided it best to play along. 
Mrs. Rogers had taken a big chance. She hoped 
that being forceful and loud would turn these men 
away. For the moment it remained to be seen if it 
had worked.  
McVey didn’t immediately respond. The quiet 
seemed to last for a lot longer than it probably did. 
I couldn’t help but wonder what was going to 
happen next.   
The answer would start to come with McVey’s 
response. “Who’s that sonny, your maw? Mean 
one isn’t she?” 
“Yes sir,” I replied, “and you don’t want to cross 
her.” 
“All right.” replied McVey, evidently too tired or 
intimidated to take it any further. “Me and the boys 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
37 
will grab some water and check out the stable for 
potatoes. You be a good boy and get your maw 
what she wants. I’d just as soon not hear her 
shrieking voice anymore.” 
Having won for the moment, I grabbed the 
bucket and turned back to the station while McVey 
and his men walked their horses over to the trouth 
near the stable. As I entered, I could see Mrs. 
Rogers looking at me with eyes as big as 
horseshoes. She didn’t say a word and neither did 
I. Sarah was nowhere in sight and I assumed she 
was going to stay in hiding until they left.   
Ten more minutes would pass before we heard 
their horses leave. Whatever brought Mrs. Rogers 
to behave that way, it looked like it had worked. 
Those men, that only moments before had planned 
to make trouble for us, were now out of the station 
yard and, hopefully, out of our lives. We all felt 
very relieved. The day had already held enough 
excitement. But I couldn’t help thinking that there 
was something unsettling about those men. I also 
had the strange feeling that I’d not seen the last of 
them. 
 
 
38 
Chapter 5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The afternoon shadows were getting long when 
Captain Daggot, accompanied by his companion 
Whitey, Red, and a very uncomfortable Mr. 
Rogers, arrived at the Carey Station. On reaching 
the yard, they dismounted and cautiously walked 
the horses up to the house, not knowing exactly 
what they were about to find.  
They tied the team to the rail and, with Daggot in 
the lead, all walked to the door. Looking down, 
Daggot was the first to see the blood.  
Rogers knelt and touched it. Rubbed it between 
his fingers then, holding his fingers to his nose, 
seemed to smell it. “Fairly fresh. Probably not 
more than eight to ten hours old. At least one of 
them got hit out here and was dragged.” 
Carefully stepping around the blood, Daggot 
turned the knob and pulled the door open. There on 
the floor, in front of them, lay both Carey brothers. 
The trail of blood from outside the door ended in a 
pool under the bodies. 
 Mr. Rogers knelt down next to the first body 
and carefully turned it over. “This one was shot in 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
39 
the chest. He’s the one who was dragged in.  
Probably the second one shot.” 
“How could you know that?” I asked. 
“See his foot? It’s on top of the other body’s leg. 
If he’d been shot first and dragged in, he wouldn’t 
be on top. The other man went down first.” 
Rogers then shifted over to the other body that 
was laying face down. “This one was shot in the 
back. Being the first one killed, it stands that the 
fight started in here, if there was a fight at all.” 
Looking around the station house he added, 
“Doesn’t look like much disruption. I’d guess the 
decision to shoot came quick. I can’t tell much 
more than that, other than they’ve been dead less 
than a day. Must have happened just before the 
stage got here.” 
“This doesn’t look like Indians to me,” Daggot 
noted. “Nothing appears to be out of place and at 
this close a range, Indians would be more apt to 
use a knife. Also, I noticed the tracks in the yard 
all had shoes. Crow ponies would be shoeless. 
White men did this,” stated Daggot.  
Whiteplume walked back out to the yard and 
walked around for a few minutes, studying the 
ground. He then pointed down, raising his hand as 
he spoke toward the southwest. “Four horses and 
four riders. Headed that way.” 
“Listen Daggot, if the Indian’s right, the men 
who did this headed in the general direction we 
came from. I’m not sure how we missed them, but
John E. Richman 
 
40 
 they could be on their way to Price’s Station!” 
exclaimed Mr. Rogers. “I don’t like it.” 
“Relax Rogers, we’d have seen them if they 
were going there. Anyway your women are in 
good hands with young Montana.” 
Captain Daggot continued, “Let’s find some 
blankets and wrap them up. We’ll strap them to the 
stage. Let’s also get those other two horses out of 
the corral. We’ll have to bring them with us as we 
can’t leave them here alone.”  
At that, the four went about the business of 
wrapping and strapping both Carey brothers to the 
stage and tied off two more horses to the back of it. 
They then started the wagon back down the trail, 
back toward Price’s station. Mr. Rogers was 
anxious to get back and check on his wife and 
daughter.  
All three were quiet as they followed the stage 
tracks back toward the dimming sun.  
 
Back at Price’s station, with McVey and his men 
now gone, Sarah returned to the kitchen from her 
hiding place and the three of us sat around the table 
discussing our strange visit.  
“I have to tell you Mrs. Rogers, I don’t know 
about those men, but you scared the heck out of 
me! What made you do such a dangerous thing?” 
“Montana, I may be just a school teacher from 
back east, but I’m not so slow as to think those 
men were up to anything good. I didn’t like the 
way that McVey man became rude to you, and I 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
41 
could see they had their heads set on spending 
some time here. With the killings just a station 
away, I was concerned for all of us. I just thought 
that they would be less apt to want to stay if they 
knew you weren’t alone. Anyway, who wants to 
mess with a crabby old school marm!” 
“You even scared me, mother,” Sara added. “I 
heard you from the back room and wondered if 
you had lost your mind!” 
“No, but I may get there!” she replied. 
We all laughed.  
“Well,” I said, “Whatever you were thinking, it 
worked. After checking out the stable, they headed 
right out and never looked back. I’m not sure I’d 
call you an old school marm though. You’re no 
older than my school teacher back in Montana. Of 
course I was home-schooled and never thought of 
my mother as that old!” 
We all laughed some more. Sarah proceeded to 
tell us that she had planned to follow in her 
mother’s footsteps by becoming a teacher herself. 
Unfortunately, she had to leave school before she 
had completed her course work. She said she 
hoped to find a teaching job out west just the same. 
An hour or so later, just as the sun was beginning 
to set, we heard horses again in the yard. This time 
I grabbed my Winchester before I looked out the 
door but was relieved when I saw I wouldn’t be 
needing it. It was the stage and horses we’d sent to 
the Carey Station.  
John E. Richman 
 
42 
Dark as it was getting, I could see that one of the 
horses was a lot bigger than the others. That would 
be the Captain’s, and knowing Daggot was back 
with us, my nerves began to settle down even 
before I could make out their faces.   
As they entered the yard, Mr. Rogers jumped 
from the stage and ran by me to his waiting wife.   
“I’m so glad to see you Tom. It’s been a very 
long three hours. How did it go back at the other 
station?” 
“It was sad more than anything else. Two good 
men…dead of gunshot wounds for no apparent 
reason. I agree with Captain Daggot that it didn’t 
look like the work of Indians, but it’s not clear 
what it was all about. How did things go here?” 
“Young Mr. Montana took good care of us, but 
we did have visitors. Four men with guns rode in 
and seemed to want to stay. But Montana chased 
them off.”  
“That’s not exactly how it happed,” I responded. 
“Mrs. Rogers did most of the work herself.” 
Somewhat confused, Mr. Rogers was about to 
pursue my comment when Captain Daggot, who 
had overheard her both of us, joined in. “Tell me 
more about the four men. Montana, what 
happened?” 
We all went inside where Mrs. Rogers and I 
described our visit in detail to the other men.  
“Whitey tracked four horses out of the Carey 
brother’s station. I’d be real interested in knowing 
a little more about those men,” resolved Daggot.  
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
43 
“They seemed pretty beat up so I suspect they 
made camp close-by. Maybe we should go pay 
them a visit,” I replied. 
Mr. Rogers spoke up, “Listen Daggot, I share 
your interest in following up with those men, but I 
have my wife and daughter to think of and it’s high 
time we move out toward Laramie, like you 
promised.” 
The Captain responded, “I promised I’d get you 
there tonight and will do so if that’s what you 
want, but the situation has changed since I made 
that commitment. I agree with Montana that those 
men are probably haven’t gone too far. I also 
suspect that, based on what we just heard, they’re 
not likely to return here, so I think it would be 
safer to bed down here tonight and move out in the 
morning. But it’s your call.” 
After some more conversation, it was Mrs. 
Rogers’s opinion that prevailed. She’d considered 
Daggot’s comments and decided it was safer for 
her family to remain in our company for the night, 
instead of riding out on an unknown trail and 
running the risk of encountering McVey and his 
men again. 
The Price Way Station was small with only three 
rooms. We gave the Roger’s family the station 
while Daggot, Whitey, Red and I made camp in the 
stable.   
We removed the Carey brothers from the stage 
and placed them in a small feed shack just off the 
John E. Richman 
 
44 
stable for the night. Not very respectful but it was 
the best we could do. 
About an hour after everyone had retired and 
nearly asleep myself, I heard movement from 
across the stable, where the others had bedded 
down. I opened my eyes and, in the near dark, saw 
Daggot and Whitey pulling their boots back on.   
“Where are you two going?” I inquired. 
Daggot replied quietly, “Whitey and I are going 
to do a little moonlight exploring. You and Red 
stay here. We’ll be back in an hour or so.” 
I hadn’t known Captain Daggot long but long 
enough to not question him. I knew they were 
going out to see if they could find McVey’s camp. 
I wasn’t sure what they were planning to do if they 
found it. I guessed I’d leave that up to him. 
Moments later, they walked their horses out of the 
yard and shortly after that, I fell sound asleep. 
Some time later I woke up to the movement of 
horses when Daggot and Whitey returned. I’d lost 
track of time so I didn’t know how long they’d 
been gone. As they got back into their blankets, I 
was curious what they’d found, but figured I’d find 
out in the morning.    
After a few more hours of sleep, we all got up 
around sun-up. After washing up at the well, the 
four of us entered the station to join the Rogers and 
plan our day. Daggot hadn’t shared anything of last 
night’s ride with me yet, and I held off asking.  
In the station house, Captain Daggot told us that 
we should plan to leave for Laramie right away. 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
45 
Naturally, the Rogers were pleased to be finally 
getting on with their journey. Whitey and Red had 
already re-loaded the Carey brothers, this time on 
two horses that were roped behind the stage. I rode 
Spirit and Daggot rode his great horse. The rest 
were either in or on the stage. Shortly thereafter, 
we headed out.  
Yesterday’s good weather had drifted out and 
been replaced by high clouds that dimmed the sun. 
The trip to Laramie would take about two hours 
and it began quietly with the Captain taking the 
lead.  
The stage road from Price’s Station to Laramie 
started out through a low pine forest then broke out 
into open prairie. I couldn’t help but think that 
we’d been on this trip for several days now and 
were currently going backwards! As much as I 
enjoyed the company of Sarah and her mother, I 
was getting anxious to get back to our buffalo hunt. 
About an hour into the trip, Daggot fell off the 
lead and circled around to my position. Whitey 
replaced him in the front. 
“I suppose you’re curious about what we found 
last night?” Daggot was finally going to tell me 
about their late-night ride. 
“As a matter of fact, I am. Did you find McVey 
and his men?” I inquired. 
“Whitey was able to track them by moonlight to 
a small clearing about three miles south-west of the 
station. We got close enough to see there were four 
of them but left them alone. I don’t know if they’re 
John E. Richman 
 
46 
responsible for the Carey killings or not, but if they 
were, I didn’t want to provoke them in the dark. 
Since they didn’t know we were watching them, 
they’ll probably move on to Laramie on their own. 
If there’s a Marshal or Deputy in town we ought to 
be able to deal with them there.” 
I appreciated Captain Daggot letting me know 
what we were doing, but recognized that he didn’t 
want to disturb the Rogers any more than neces-
sary, so I would keep this information to myself as 
he clearly intended. I suspected our time in 
Laramie would be interesting. 
 
 
47 
Chapter 6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It was mid-morning when we arrived. I was 
struck with how big a city Laramie was. On our 
way east the other day, we’d gone around it and 
now I was sorry we did. Before today, I’d never 
been to any town bigger than Green River, but 
Laramie looked to be three or four times bigger.  
We entered town from the east. The weather had 
been getting worse since last night and the cold 
mist we’d been riding through was starting to turn 
to real rain. I was looking forward to just getting 
inside, anywhere, and warming up. Looking back 
at the Rogers, I knew I wasn’t the only one 
thinking those thoughts. 
But the Captain was duty-bound and had 
different plans for us. He seemed to know the 
town’s layout and took us past several saloons and 
hotels, heading directly to the Stage Company 
office.   
When we got there, he shouted back to Red and 
Whitey to drop the Rogers off with us and then 
John E. Richman 
 
48 
head down to the jail and see if there was a 
Marshal or Deputy in.   
“If there’s anybody there, leave him the bodies. 
If not, take them on to the undertaker’s to hold 
until we can find one. Montana and I will catch up 
to you at the livery,” Daggot added. 
Mr. and Mrs. Rogers and Sarah left the stage and 
we helped Red unload their trunks. We left the 
trunks on the step in front and all entered stage 
office together. 
The office also served as a ticket office and there 
was a large wooden bar with a bank-style window 
in the center. Behind the window a clerk, wearing 
eyeglasses and a green visor, was shuffling papers.    
“You must be the folks from Price’s Station. 
Price told me you’d be along today.” 
Daggot replied, “I take it you’ve already spoken 
to Price about the killings?” 
“Oh yes. Mr. Price filled us in yesterday.” The 
clerk put down his papers and walked around the 
bar, joining us in the open area.  
“What a tragedy. Those Careys were good boys 
and ran a fine station. I take it you’re Captain 
Daggot and these must be the Rogers?” 
“Yes,” replied Mr. Rogers. “This is my wife 
Mrs. Rogers and my daughter Sarah. Sir, the 
events of the past day or so have caused us some 
delay in our schedule. We need to get on to 
California as soon as possible. When is the next 
stage scheduled out of here?” 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
49 
“The next stage won’t do you any good…it’s 
heading east. If you’re going to California, you’ll 
need to wait until noon tomorrow for the first west-
bound. May I recommend the Laramie Hotel, just 
across the street and a few doors down. They don’t 
have a saloon so it’s nice and quiet. I can have 
your trunks sent there shortly.” 
“I suppose that will have to do,” replied Mr. 
Rogers, who had been hoping to get on with his 
trip today. “Plan the three of us for that stage and 
I’d request that you get those trunks over to the 
hotel as quickly as possible.” 
“Where’s Price?” inquired the Captain.  
“He told me to tell you he’d be waiting for you 
in the Crystal Saloon, just up the street the other 
way,” replied the clerk. “What did you do with the 
Carey boys?” 
“They’re probably down at the jail house unless 
there’s nobody there,” answered Daggot. “I told 
your driver to take them on to the undertaker’s if 
he couldn’t find a lawman.” 
“Well,” the clerk replied, “I thank you for 
bringing the bodies in, but your men won’t find a 
lawman in today. We tried to get him yesterday 
and were told Marshal Kopper is out at a mining 
camp about two days ride from here. He’s 
investigating a claim jumping and another killing. 
We don’t expect him back for a day or two. I hope 
you boys can wait out his return. I’m sure he’d 
want to talk to you about what you found.” 
John E. Richman 
 
50 
 “Those Carey boys will be hard to replace,” he 
continued, “Price told us you don’t think it was 
Indians. Is that still your thinkin’?” 
“It is,” replied Daggot. “We took Mr. Rogers 
with us when we went to collect the bodies. He 
was a lawman back east and looked the scene over 
with us. He noted that one of the brother’s had 
been shot in the back and one in the chest. Other 
than the tracks, we didn’t find any clues at the 
scene, but it looked like the work of white men to 
all of us.” 
The clerk continued on that yesterday, after Price 
first arrived and reported the killings, he had 
telegraphed the main office in Omaha and they 
were going to send out an investigator as well as a 
temporary stationmaster. 
Daggot replied that Mr. Rogers would be leaving 
but that we’d stay a day or two until either the 
investigator or the Marshal arrived. We then said 
goodbye to Mr. and Mrs. Rogers and Sarah, and 
headed out to the livery. I had really grown fond of 
them during our brief time together and hoped to 
be able to see them again.  
Over the next hour, Daggot and I boarded the 
horses, met up with Whitey, and the three of us 
checked into the Laramie Hotel where I finally 
began to warm up. Whitey didn’t like the idea of 
staying in the hotel until Daggot told him he could 
bunk in his room.  
Being tired, hungry and thirsty, three of us 
decided to go to a nearby saloon and get something 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
51 
to eat. We ordered steaks all around and had just 
started to eat when in through the front doors 
walked Irish Dan McVey and his three friends. 
The room was pretty crowded and they didn’t 
appear to see me. They made their way to a table 
across the room where folks were playing poker.   
“Captain,” I whispered, “that’s McVey and his 
men… the ones that came to the station while you 
were at Carey’s.”  
‘Uh huh,” muttered Daggot. “It was their camp 
we visited last night. Looks like they finally found 
their food.”  
“That one with the box under his arm is McVey, 
the one who gave me the hard time. What do you 
think Captain…you reckon they killed the Carey 
brothers?” 
“No way of telling, Montana, but they do look 
mighty suspicious. I’d also like to know what’s in 
that fancy box he’s holding so tight.” 
“Why don’t we go over and find out?” I replied. 
“I don’t think so. Not yet.”  
Daggot was insistent that we lay low and just 
keep an eye on them until the Marshal returned. 
“We don’t know that they did it and if that McVey 
is as miserable as you say he is, I’d rather have the 
law deal with it. We don’t need a saloon fight and, 
anyway, it doesn’t seem like they’re in any hurry 
to leave.”  
So it remained a little uncomfortable for a while. 
Neither McVey nor his men had spotted me yet 
and might not even recognize me if and when they 
John E. Richman 
 
52 
did. In the meantime, I found myself enjoying a 
nice thick steak just thirty feet from the man that, 
only yesterday, had argued with me at Price’s 
Station. I don’t think Captain Daggot realized how 
bothersome he had been as I had pretended that it 
was no big deal. But I didn’t trust McVey or his 
men and figured they were somehow tied to the 
killings of the Carey brothers. 
By the time we’d finished dinner, the saloon had 
filled up and was getting a lot noisier. McVey and 
one of his men had joined a poker game across the 
room and it was beginning to draw some attention 
from the crowd.   
About then one of McVey’s men walked by our 
table and spotted me. I’m not sure he recognized 
me right away, but he paused right next to me and 
thought about it.  
“Well if it isn’t mamma’s boy! What brings you 
to the big city, boy? Did mamma finally let you out 
of her sight for a few minutes or is she here 
working the saloon?” 
As I started to get up, Captain Daggot noticed 
the pistol strapped to his hip and put his arm across 
to block me. “Take it easy Montana, that’s just the 
whiskey talkin’. I’m sure he doesn’t mean any 
harm…right mister?” 
While he spoke, Daggot had moved his free hand 
to his pistol.  
Noticing Daggot’s move, McVey’s man paused. 
Alcohol or no alcohol, he could see that Captain 
Daggot was nearly as tall as he was while still 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
53 
sitting down. His better sense took over and he 
backed off. 
“Yeah, sure -- anything you say Gramps,” he 
replied in a surly kind of way, and turned to amble 
away. 
“Montana, here’s a free lesson for you. Don’t 
ever let another man’s behavior dictate yours… 
particularly in a strange saloon. I’ve seen a lot of 
good men meet their end doing otherwise.”   
“I know this bunch gets under your skin, but 
there’s four of them and three of us, and we don’t 
have a lot of support here. I don’t care for the odds. 
Just bite your lip and ignore him for now. 
Remember, time is on our side.” 
“That’s good advice Captain, but that’s getting 
harder to do,” I replied. 
Not long afterward, there was an outburst at 
McVey’s poker table. It seemed to have something 
to do with that box he’d been carrying around. As 
we looked more closely, McVey had put the box 
on the table and opened it to reveal a pair of silver 
Colt 45’s. Pretty as they looked from across the 
room, one of the other players appeared unhappy 
about it.  
“This set of Colts is worth at least $100!” 
McVey stated in the loud and abusive voice I was 
beginning to think was normal for him.  
“How do I even know they’re rightfully yours?” 
demanded the other player. 
John E. Richman 
 
54 
“Sonny, all you have to know is that I got em’, 
they’re on the table and they’ll easily cover my 
bet,” McVey continued the aggressive tone. 
One of the other players at the table jumped in to 
say he didn’t like McVey’s attitude.  
“How do we know what they’re worth?” said the 
first player. “How do we know you ain’t been 
cheatin’ all along?” 
I’d learned early on at the Circle R that calling 
somebody out for cheatin’ at cards is fight’n 
words. People get killed doing that. This seemed to 
be true in Laramie as well because as soon as it 
was said, the saloon went silent and everybody that 
wasn’t sitting at a table and some that were, got out 
of the way and moved back to the nearest wall. 
McVey also stood up and it looked for all the 
world like he was about to draw his gun. But 
before words turned to gunplay, a very unexpected 
thing happened. Having just received the ultimate 
insult and with his three partners behind him, 
McVey backed off! He was the first to sit back 
down. 
“Take it easy Mister. I’m no cheater and if I was, 
I’d have a bigger pile of money in front of me. If 
you don’t want the guns on the table, I’ll fold. 
Take the pot, it’s yours.” 
McVey’s reaction at being called a cheater in 
front of the entire saloon was a real surprise and 
clearly out of character for him. Something had 
made McVey back down, but none of us were sure 
what it was. But he was sure acting peculiar.   
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
55 
Shortly after that, McVey and his men gathered 
their remaining money, chugged down their drinks, 
and took off. A minute later, the saloon was back 
to normal.   
 “Looks like your man McVey doesn’t want to 
attract any more attention than he already has,” 
said Daggot. “And I wonder what the story is on 
those pistols. He seemed to be pretty concerned 
about keeping them to himself.”  
A while later, just as we were just finishing up, 
the saloon doors opened again and in walked Mr. 
Rogers.   
“Surprised to see you here Rogers…in a seedy 
place like this. Where are the ladies?” asked 
Daggot with a smile. 
“I left them down the way where, I was told, 
they’re having their hair cut. That gave me a few 
minutes to hide out and thought I might run into 
you folks in here. Can I buy you a drink?” 
Daggot was first to respond, “We were just 
leaving but would surely stay a while to enjoy a 
drink with a real live Philadelphia constable! 
Particularly if he’s buying!” 
“Yeah, yeah,” replied Rogers, “Have you had 
any luck meeting up with the law out here?” 
“Not yet,” responded Daggot, “but we did have 
the pleasure of running into those men that scared 
Mrs. Rogers back at the Station. The one who calls 
himself Irish Dan was making friends here just like 
he did yesterday with young Montana. Almost got 
himself shot in the process.” 
John E. Richman 
 
56 
“Wouldn’t have bothered me any if he had,” 
replied Rogers. “Any man who threatens my 
family deserves nothing less.”  
As they ordered another round of drinks, Daggot 
explained to Mr. Rogers the strangeness of 
McVey’s behavior at the poker table. 
“Whether or not he was cheating, he let his 
mouth get him in trouble and just when it looked 
like somebody was going to get shot, he backed off 
and nearly apologized for the whole thing. Didn’t 
appear to be his nature to be sure, but he looked 
like a man trying to avoid too much attention.”  
Rogers answered, “You say he had a pair of 
matched Colts in the box? Maybe he just changed 
his mind and decided to hold on to them.” 
“Maybe.” answered Daggot, “Or maybe he 
killed those two men yesterday and didn’t want to 
attract any attention from the local law.” 
I asked Mr. Rogers if he and his family were 
planning to take the noon stage out tomorrow? 
“Oh yes, Montana. Mrs. Rogers and Sarah want 
to get California in the worst way and we still have 
half a country to cross. We couldn’t interest you in 
coming along could we? It seems you made quite 
an impression on Mrs. Rogers and Sarah 
yesterday.”  
Quite an impression? I’d made an impression on 
Sarah? I quickly tried to think back to how that 
might have happened, but the answer didn’t come 
easy. It couldn’t have been my awkward attempt to 
keep McVey and his men from staying at Price’s 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
57 
Station. No, that seemed clumsy even to me. Try as 
I could, I couldn’t imagine why Sarah and her 
mother would be partial to me at all.  
“Well, Mr. Rogers, they made quite an 
impression on me, too, but as you know I’m 
heading down to Texas to make some real money, 
and California would be the wrong direction for a 
cowboy. I do appreciate your asking though. 
Please give the ladies my best.”   
“Alright,” he replied, “you can consider the 
invitation open if your circumstances ever 
change.” 
We finished our drinks and all left the saloon for 
the hotel. Captain, Whitey and I headed upstairs to 
our rooms and Mr. Rogers left to join his family.  
My room was small but it was warm and I was 
so tired it didn’t matter anyway. I opened the 
window to let some cool air in and went right to 
bed.
 
 
58 
Chapter 7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
After leaving the poker game, McVey and his 
men picked up their horses and headed out of town 
to make camp in a nearby woods. 
One of his men, Carl, broke the silence. “Irish 
Dan, I never thought I’d see the day you backed 
down from a fight. Are you sure you’re not turning 
yellow in your old age?” 
“Any other time I’d have taken him on, but we 
don’t need any more trouble right now. If we’d 
pushed it any harder tonight, we might have ended 
up in jail and that’s not a good place for us right 
now.” 
“Good thinking,” Davy joined in, “but we’ve run 
out of food and you left the rest of our money back 
on that poker table. We can’t go on without a stock 
of food. When can we sell those Colts and put 
some money back in our pockets?” 
 “I think the smartest thing for us to do is put 
some real distance between us and that way station 
back there. We can sell the Colts when we get 
where we’re goin’,” McVey replied. 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
59 
“That’s fine for you all, but I’m gettin’ hungry. 
We need a better plan,” Carl responded. 
“Here’s the plan. Tomorrow morning we’ll take 
an early ride back into town and get what we need. 
Then we’ll head for the mountains until all this 
blows over and those Carey boys are long 
forgotten,” answered McVey. He didn’t like it that 
his men were getting jumpy. McVey knew that 
killing the Careys could end up putting his neck in 
a noose. His “men” had been suitable for small 
crimes but the seriousness of this new situation 
caused him to take a fresh look at his gang…and 
his discomfort was building. 
Carl spoke again, “You know, in all the ruckus, I 
forgot to tell you. Back at the saloon I saw that kid 
we ran into at the other way station yesterday. He 
was eatin’ with some big guy and an Indian. I think 
he was surprised to see me.”  
“Why didn’t you tell me this before?” demanded 
McVey, “he might have been trailin’ us!”  
Davy spoke up, “I don’t think so. I saw him, too, 
and he was just eatin’ his supper. Other than bein’ 
surprised, he didn’t seem to care whether we was 
there or not. If he’d had anything to say, there was 
nothin’ stopping them from sayin’ it.”  
“Just the same,” responded McVey, “I don’t like 
it. Too many people showin’ up for no good 
reason. We go back for supplies in the morning 
and then straight west. Get your rest tonight -- 
we’re goin’ for a long ride tomorrow.” 
John E. Richman 
 
60 
The next morning dawned a little brighter than 
the past few days. McVey and his gang broke 
camp early and headed into town, intent on 
acquiring some money and food for their trip. 
The Rogers family ate breakfast at their hotel 
while their three large trunks were being moved 
down to the station.  
I got up not knowing what to expect of the day, 
but hoping the Marshal would arrive so we could 
tell him our story and head back east toward the 
buffalo grounds.  
Around seven-thirty I decided to go down to the 
livery and check on Spirit. We hadn’t been apart 
this long since I’d owned him, and I suspected he 
was getting lonely.  
I slipped on my boots and started the long walk 
down Main Street. The town was quiet at this time 
of the morning and it looked a lot prettier in the 
sunlight than it had in the rain the day before. I’d 
walked several blocks when four horses and riders 
approached from the west. It was McVey and his 
gang! Of all the luck. I just couldn’t seem to shake 
these guys. Before I could duck out of sight, they 
saw me.  
Again, I was unarmed. As they saw me, one of 
them headed right over to where I was standing, 
pulling up not ten feet away. 
“Well lookie here. It’s the momma’s boy again. 
I’m beginning to think you’re followin’ us. Are 
you followin’ us boy?” 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
61 
“I have better things to do,” I answered and 
turned my back to him, continuing my walk toward 
the stable. As I did, I listened to see if his horse 
followed me. He didn’t. McVey told him to knock 
it off and I could hear their horses moving in the 
other direction.  
Whether or not they would, in time, be tied to 
the killing of the Carey brothers, I was really 
beginning to dislike those folks. However, I 
remembered the Captain’s advice from the night 
before. “Don’t let a stranger’s behavior dictate 
yours.” They’d had me at a disadvantage the last 
several times we’d met. As I thought about that I 
could see the sense in the Captain’s “lesson.” 
Though, in my heart, I suspected that the day 
would come when we’d meet on more favorable 
terms.  
Continuing on, I arrived at the livery to the 
sound of the smithy banging out a tune on a red-
hot horseshoe.  
“Mornin’,” I offered, but he couldn’t hear me 
over the noise. Instead, he waved his hammer in 
kind of a silent greeting.  
I worked my way back through the stalls until I 
found Spirit. He was standing at the door, eating 
oats from a bag that hung on it. As soon as he saw 
me he seemed to perk up.  
“How are you doin’ old boy?” I reached over, 
unlocked the gate and entered the small but cozy 
stall. Spirit immediately stopped eating and came 
over to nuzzle.   
John E. Richman 
 
62 
“I’ve missed you boy. It shouldn’t be much 
longer. We should be done with our business and 
on our way to the hunt in no time at all.” 
Spirit seemed to understand. I wasn’t used to city 
living and I know he wasn’t, but we could take one 
more day of it. So, content that he was being well 
treated, I picked the brush off the wall hook and 
began brushing the straw dust off him. It wasn’t 
long before the blacksmith, now finished with his 
shoeing, stopped over.  
“That’s quite a pony you have there, young 
man,” he said. “I’ve seen hundreds of them and 
your “Spirit” is one of a kind. I don’t suppose 
you’d be interested in selling him?” 
“No, sir,” I responded, “I’ve seen a lot of horses 
myself and I appreciate Spirit for what he is. I’d 
never be able to sell him.” 
“Well, I had to ask. I don’t blame you a bit. I’ll 
bet he can run too.” 
“Like a jackrabbit from a lightening strike!” I 
responded.  
“Thought so. Well, I’ll take extra special care of 
him for you,” he replied. “How much longer you 
boys plan on stayin’ around?” 
“We’re almost done with our business,” I 
replied. We hope to be pulling out sometime 
tomorrow. I’m much obliged for the good care 
you’re giving him.”  
With that, we said our goodbyes and I turned to 
start back up Main Street. 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
63 
I’d walked about thirty yards and, as I approach-
ed the block with the general store, the quiet of the 
morning was interrupted by a single gunshot that 
echoed all over town. Just then, several men ran 
from the store and mounted their horses. I didn’t 
have to look to know it was McVey and his gang. I 
didn’t know then what manner of trouble they’d 
gotten themselves into this time, but was soon to 
find out.  
They were pushing their horses hard and heading 
in my direction. 
Behind them, a woman had come out of the store 
and was screaming for help. My first reaction was 
to block McVey and his men with my body, but 
with no gun I knew that wouldn’t work. As they 
got closer it was clear that one of the horses was 
carrying two riders. One of them was a woman! 
My God…it was Sarah! 
On seeing her, I bolted into the street to stop 
them but was knocked aside as they passed. My 
blood began to boil. I needed to know what had 
happened so I started running as fast as I could 
toward the still screaming woman. As I got closer I 
could see it was Mrs. Rogers! By the time I 
reached her, a small crowd had gathered. She was 
yelling at someone in the crowd to get the doctor -- 
someone had been shot! 
As I finally reached her, I could see the tears in 
her eyes and the panic on her face. 
“Montana…thank God! Please get help. Tom’s 
been shot and they took Sarah!”  
John E. Richman 
 
64 
“Yes, ma’m” was all I could say and I started 
running again, this time in the direction of the 
hotel. As I approached, I could see Captain Daggot 
and Whitey, already in the street, heading toward 
me.   
“Captain! Mr. Rogers was shot in the General 
Store and McVey’s men did it. They took Sarah! I 
was in the street when they went by. We need to 
get her!” 
Daggot and Whitey both turned in my direction 
and the three of us were now running back toward 
the hotel. “Montana, get your rifle and let’s get 
down to the horses as fast as we can.” 
We each ran to our rooms, got our guns and 
regrouped back on the street. With no time to lose, 
we continued running…this time toward the livery 
I’d visited just minutes before.   
As we passed the General Store, a crowd had 
gathered. Daggot stopped us and ran in to check on 
Mr. and Mrs. Rogers. He came right back out and 
told Whitey and me that Mr. Rogers was still alive 
and the doctor was with him. We started running 
again toward the stable and our horses. 
When we reached the livery, we quickly saddled 
and, moments later, were heading out in the 
direction I’d seen McVey’s men take. There wasn’t 
much talk and there didn’t need to be. We all knew 
that McVey or one of his men had done something 
in that store that had resulted in Mr. Rogers getting 
shot…maybe killed, and they’d taken Sarah. That 
was enough for me. 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
65 
 The Captain’s horse was past his prime, but still 
strong. Starting out, he carried his giant master as 
if he was a boy. Whitey stayed with us on his 
Paint, but I knew that a long chase would belong to 
me and Spirit. At some point I knew we’d take the 
lead. I hadn’t pushed Spirit this hard since our last 
race, but he must have sensed my urgency, as his 
strength even surprised me.  
We’d ridden hard on open trail for near half an 
hour, and were fast coming to a woods. As we 
approached the entrance, Daggot slowed us down.   
“What’s going on?” I yelled. “Why are we 
stopping?” 
Daggot just raised his arm and slowly lowered it. 
“We need to be careful or we could be dry-
gulched. Let’s not be in such a hurry we get 
careless.” 
As we slowed, Daggot had Whitey take the lead. 
We remained behind him while Whitey watched 
the tracks McVey’s men had left.  
“Follow Whitey’s directions Montana. He sees 
things.”  
After what seemed like an eternity, he finally 
motioned us to start running again.  
During our chase, none of us knew exactly what 
had occurred in the General Store. McVey’d been 
so careful to avoid trouble the night before that it 
didn’t make a lot of sense. Why would he try so 
hard to avoid attention only to rob a store in broad 
daylight, shoot an innocent bystander, and kidnap 
Sarah? As much as it didn’t make sense, it seemed 
John E. Richman 
 
66 
to be true. I was concerned for Mr. Rogers but I 
was most worried about Sarah. What were they 
planning to do? Use her for cover and then drop 
her off? Keep her with them longer, as a bargain-
ing chip? It didn’t figure that they’d harm her, but 
these were evil men and they couldn’t be trusted. I 
just hoped we could get to them before they hurt 
her. 
A mile or two through the woods the trail opened 
up again into the low hills that were common 
around Laramie. I was hoping that when we moved 
over high ground, we’d be able to see them. That 
would make me feel a little better.   
As we continued to ride, I recalled Captain 
Daggot’s words when he introduced me to Whitey 
the morning we started out from Green River. He’d 
referred to him as the best tracker in the territory. I 
hoped he was right. It wouldn’t stay light forever 
and as it got darker I was afraid we could lose the 
trail. 
 
 
67 
Chapter 8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The McVey gang’s four horses were all getting 
tired…more than tired. Forced to maintain their 
full run for so long, their muscles ached and their 
hearts were straining. Davy’s horse was the 
strongest, but he was getting the worst of it, 
carrying two riders.  
Sarah’d fought at first, but was told if she kept 
resisting she’d be knocked out, and she thought it 
best to stay alert.  
Her memory of the scene in the store remained 
horrific. She and her mother and father were in the 
store early to pick up a few items for their trip 
before the stage arrived. They were in the back of 
the store when a man, in the front, began yelling. It 
didn’t take but a moment for her father to deter-
mine that the store was being robbed.   
Tom Rogers told his family to stay hidden in the 
back while he quietly crept out to get a better look 
at what was happening. While one of the men held 
a gun on the clerk, two others moved around the 
store, filling bags with food and other supplies. At 
one point, one of them headed toward the back and 
John E. Richman 
 
68 
would have discovered them had Mr. Rogers not 
stepped forward into the open.  
When McVey’s man saw Mr. Rogers, he pulled 
a gun and told him to come out into the light. He 
did. Then something went wrong. Sarah couldn’t 
see from her hiding place, but one of them yelled, 
“He’s got a gun,” and a split second later, a shot 
rang out. Neither Sarah nor her mother knew 
who’d fired the shot but when Mr. Rogers cried 
out, they both knew he’d been hit. By the time they 
ran from their hiding place to his side, he was 
already on the floor and there was blood all over 
his jacket. Then things went really crazy.   
Mrs. Rogers started screaming at the men with 
the guns, while the clerk, taking advantage of the 
confusion, jumped from behind the counter and ran 
out the front door into the street. Another of the 
gang had remained in the street, acting as a 
lookout. When he heard the shot and saw the clerk 
run out, he left the horses and ran into the store to 
see what was happening. 
It was about then that Irish Dan saw Sarah and 
told Davy, “Grab this one and get her to the horses. 
We’re taking her with us.”   
Sarah fought back, but was forced out of the 
store and into the street.  
She was frightened -- both for her father and 
herself. She was pulled on to the horse by Davy 
and placed on the front of his saddle. He reached 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
69 
around her to hold the reins, trapping her in his 
arms.   
To make matters worse, positioned as she was on 
the front of the saddle, Sarah had no stirrups for 
her feet. The horses began running fast and with 
every stride, her body bounced, slamming her to 
the saddle. When the shock of what had happened 
began to subside, it became clear that she, herself, 
was in pain. But she figured that she had to be 
smart. She was fighting for her life as well. 
Back in town, Mr. Rogers had been carried to a 
bed in rear of the store. Mrs. Rogers stayed by his 
side while the doctor cut back his shirt to examine 
the wound. He removed several instruments from 
his bag and called quickly for some boiling water. 
Mrs. Rogers held her breath. She’d been through 
too much with her husband to lose him in the back 
of this cluttered little store in the middle of 
nowhere. And as painful as it was to see her 
husband in this condition, she was equally worried 
about her daughter, taken by the same men that had 
done this to him. It wasn’t in her nature to hate, she 
thought, but she hated those men. 
The minutes that passed felt like hours. Finally 
the old doctor spoke up. “No organ damage -- lots 
of blood but the bullet passed right through the 
shoulder. If we can stop this bleeding, he should 
make it.” Those were good words for her to hear, 
but she remained troubled by his use of the word 
“should.” Before she had a chance to respond, her 
John E. Richman 
 
70 
husband stirred. He opened his eyes and looked up 
at the doctor.   
“How bad is it, doc?” he whispered.  
“You’re going to make it son,” replied the 
doctor. “The bullet passed through your shoulder. 
Just take it easy while I pour some alcohol into 
…..” 
 Before he could finish his sentence, Mrs. Rogers 
grabbed her husband’s good arm and interrupted. 
“TOM, THEY TOOK SARAH!” 
He started to push himself up but the doctor 
grabbed his arms and shoved him back down. 
“You can’t move right now. I still have to close 
this wound. If you get up now, you’ll bleed to 
death.”  
Short of breath, he whispered in his wife’s ear. 
“Get Captain Daggot.” 
“I already did, Tom. He and Montana rode out 
after them. I feel so helpless. I wish there was more 
I could do.” 
“There isn’t, Nel,” he replied. “But I have faith 
in those men and I’m certain they’ll get our Sarah 
back safe.” He then passed out again. 
 
Captain Daggot, Whitey and Montana continued 
their furious ride, pushing their horses to the 
breaking point. Whitey’s horse had stayed strong 
but the Captain’s was beginning to show signs of 
tiring.   
At one point Daggot yelled across the charging 
horses, “I don’t know how much longer I can keep 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
71 
up with you two. Don’t wait for me. If I fall back, 
just keep going -- be careful.” 
A moment later the Captain fell off the pace and 
Whitey and I were riding alone. Whitey remained 
in the lead, making sure they didn’t lose the tracks. 
Now on open prairie there were fewer tracks and 
that was making it easier to see the fresh ones. 
  So on they rode -- horses gasping, dust flying, 
and bodies pounding. We must be catching up, I 
thought. McVey’s gang only had a fifteen or 
twenty-minute head start and one of their horses 
was carrying two riders!   
We were now a good ten miles from town. All 
the bumping and pounding was even starting to get 
to me. Suddenly, my tired eyes finally caught a 
puff of dust on the horizon ahead. “That’s them,” I 
yelled to Whitey. “We’re catching them.”  
A few minutes later Whitey’s horse must have 
turned an ankle or something because he started to 
fall back as well, leaving the chase to Spirit and 
me. As much as I wanted him with me, truth was I 
didn’t need a tracker now that they were in sight.  
Spirit remained as strong as ever and as we 
closed on the four horses, I could begin to see 
riders. I squinted to see if Sarah was still with 
them, but they remained a little too far away to be 
sure.   
Then something unexpected happened. The four 
horses began to separate. Still all going in the same 
general direction, they were fanning out -- putting 
distance between themselves. No, not all of ‘em. 
John E. Richman 
 
72 
Now it was clear that only two had split off. The 
other two were still together. Those would be the 
two I’d follow. Soon, the two horses that had split 
off were out of sight. I continued closing on the 
other two.   
Over the past hour, my rage had boiled off and 
been replaced by a different feeling. As Spirit 
continued to run the race of his life, an odd sense 
of calm had come over me. It seemed like I was 
riding in slow motion. Exhausted as I was, I began 
to think more clearly than I had in a while. 
I’d always known I’d had a special calling but 
was never sure what it was, or where or how it 
would appear. This must be it, I thought. 
I recalled my boss at the Circle R who had taken 
me under his wing and trusted me his dead son’s 
colt. 
 I remembered my first meeting with Captain 
Daggot, who befriended me when I was alone and 
scared. I wasn’t raised to believe in fate, but 
something or someone had brought these people 
into my life. It all seemed to point to this moment 
and to this spot on this lonesome Wyoming trail, so 
far from home. I wondered how it would end. I 
said a quiet prayer and asked God for his help. 
Back to the moment at hand, the chase had been 
so consuming, I hadn’t given much thought to 
winning it…catching McVey. I figured that 
McVey probably wouldn’t be alone when it 
happened. He still had one of his men with him 
and they were likely experienced gunman…and I 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
73 
wasn’t. Could that make the difference? My desire 
to win Sarah back was strong, but could it win out 
when put up against older and more experienced 
men?   
Or worse -- could my excitement put Sarah in 
even greater danger than she already was? The 
more I thought about it, the more my brain swirled 
with the possibilities. I decided to just not think 
about it for now. I just needed to ride and deal with 
one problem at a time.   
The horses ahead were tiring. The race had been 
too hard and too long. Their pace was clearly 
slowing. I could now see that one of the horses had 
two riders. Sarah was still with them. Now I had to 
think. They had Sarah and they had guns. Winning 
the chase was one thing but saving Sarah was all 
that mattered.   
As Spirit continued his driving pace, I was now 
close enough to see that both the horses had pulled 
up. This could be it. Were they planning to make 
their stand there, right out in the open? It didn’t 
seem logical with better cover up ahead.   
I could see the riders moving around. Then, just 
as quickly, the riders re-mounted and proceeded to 
move out in separate directions. It must be that the 
horse that carried Sarah had tired more quickly 
than the other. McVey had switched her to the 
other horse…probably his. 
As Spirit and I continued to close, I could now 
easily see the horse with two riders and was 
determined to catch him. The race was now down 
John E. Richman 
 
74 
to two horses, and I knew Spirit would win. Also, 
with the other riders having split off, the fight for 
Sarah would be one on one. Much better odds than 
would have been the case earlier. But I was still 
concerned. With Daggot and Whitey having fallen 
back, I was out here on my own. As much as I 
could use it, I couldn’t expect any help. It was 
going to be up to me and me alone. 
There was fifty yards between us now and I was 
really getting tired. While I resisted my tendency 
to daydream, I couldn’t stop my mind from 
flashing back to that look of desperation in Mrs. 
Roger’s eyes. “…they took Sarah. Please help!”  
At the time I could only respond with a “Yes, 
ma’m,” but I’d meant it. I could help, and the time 
for doing so was coming fast. 
Up ahead the trail climbed a small rise that was 
topped with large boulders. I could now see the 
riders clearly. As I suspected, it was McVey 
himself. When his horse topped the rise, McVey 
pulled him to a stop and jumped off, yanking Sarah 
down with him. In one continuous motion, he used 
his free hand to pull his rifle from its scabbard and 
slapped his horse’s flank to move him out. Then, 
dragging Sarah behind, he took cover behind one 
of the larger rocks. 
I knew I only had seconds to react. I glanced 
around my position at the bottom of the rise for 
cover. There wasn’t much. I spotted an old log 
several yards away and whipped Spirit’s head 
around toward it. When we got to it, I jumped from 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
75 
my saddle, taking my Winchester with me. Just as 
I dropped behind the trunk, a shot rang out and the 
sand next to my exposed leg exploded in the air. 
That was close! 
When I grabbed the rifle from my hotel room, I 
hadn’t had time to check it for ammunition. I knew 
my Winchester had a capacity of sixteen rounds, 
but seldom kept it fully loaded. My best guess was 
that I had less than ten shots…maybe eight. I’d 
have to be careful not to run out as I hadn’t had 
time to grab any ammunition when I jumped, and 
Spirit had now moved back out of the way. 
I slowly raised my head over the log to see if I 
could get a clean shot off. As my eyes cleared the 
log I saw McVey’s rifle barrel pointing straight at 
me. I ducked. Crack! Another shot just missed. I 
could hear Sarah’s voice talking back to McVey as 
she continued to resist. 
“Boy…” McVey yelled from his hiding place. 
“If you want to see this girl stay alive, you better 
back off. Throw out your guns or I’ll shoot her.”  
“If you hurt her, I’ll shoot you,” I replied. “Why 
don’t you let her go and we can settle this like 
men.”  
“I don’t see any men over there,” replied 
McVey. “Just a boy who’s in this way over his 
head. Your big friend can’t help you now. You 
throw your guns out in the open and I’ll let you 
walk away. This is your last chance.” 
“So you could shoot me down, just like you did 
the Carey brothers? I don’t think so. You may have 
John E. Richman 
 
76 
me pinned down, but I have you pinned down too, 
and I can go a lot longer without water than you 
can.” 
It got quiet. The standoff continued for a few 
more minutes when McVey, again, broke the 
silence. “We’re coming out. Throw out your guns 
or I’ll shoot her. I swear I will.”    
I was worried. If McVey had killed the Careys, 
he’d be desperate to save himself. He was certainly 
capable of killing us both. 
Then McVey stood up holding Sarah in front of 
him as a shield. They were now in full view. 
McVey’s rifle was in his right hand and his left 
arm was stretched across her throat. He was 
starting to walk toward me. Peering over, I could 
see the fear in Sarah’s eyes.  
My mind was racing again, trying to come up 
with a plan, but I couldn’t think of one. Not a good 
one. 
“He’s going to shoot us both anyway,” Sarah 
choked the words out around his ever-tightening 
grip. “SHOOT HIM, MONTANA. SHOOT HIM 
NOW!” 
As much as I would have loved to be able to 
follow her direction, I knew I couldn’t. He’d won. 
My plan wasn’t good enough. I couldn’t risk 
Sarah’s life to save mine. 
I knew it was suicide, but I stood up from behind 
the log and held out my rifle in a sign of surrender.  
“Throw it away, now. Any pistols, too.” McVey 
instructed with a devilish fire in his eye.   
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
77 
Following his direction, I threw my Winchester 
to the right and stepped clear of the log. “I don’t 
have a pistol,” I replied. 
McVey then released his arm from Sarah’s neck 
and let her go, pushing her toward me. With both 
hands now free, he leveled his rifle in our 
direction.   
“My boys told me you’ve been dogging us since 
we first met up at that way station yesterday, where 
you wouldn’t feed us. I don’t know what your 
problem is with me sonny, but I’m fixin’ to solve 
it. You and the girl better start saying your 
prayers.”  
He had us cold and was going to kill us both. I 
couldn’t reason with him. I’d failed. I couldn’t 
have messed things up worse if I tried. All I could 
do was hold Sarah in my arms and wait for the 
shot. We both closed our eyes. If this was to be the 
end, at least we’d go together.  
“Crack!” I jumped…but I was still standing! My 
next reaction was the shot didn’t sound close. It 
sounded more like an echo. It wasn’t McVey! 
I opened my eyes to see McVey flying back-
wards toward the ground. Blood flew out a hole in 
his chest and he was dead when he hit the ground. 
I released Sarah and spun around to see who was 
responsible. There was nobody there! Sarah had 
dropped to the ground, but was unhurt as well. 
I turned back in McVey’s direction and walked 
over to where he now laid, his rifle still clenched in 
his right hand…finger still on the trigger. A shiver 
John E. Richman 
 
78 
went up my backbone to think that’s how close we 
came to dying. 
I reached for Sarah and lifted her to her feet. She 
looked over at McVey’s body and back at me. 
“What happened?” she asked. 
“There’s only one kind of rifle that could drop 
him like that from such a long distance.” 
“Who, what?” replied Sarah, still confused.  
“A buffalo gun,” I answered. “Daggot!”  
I turned back in the direction the sound had 
come from. Using my hand to shield my eyes, I 
searched the horizon for any kind of reflection or 
movement.   
“There he is. Over that ridge to the left.  There’s 
two of ‘em. Must be over five hundred yards! Best 
shot I’ve ever seen.” 
 
 
79 
Chapter 9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We didn’t know that Mr. Rogers had survived 
the shooting until we got back to Laramie later that 
night. We were all relieved to see he was doing so 
well.   
Sarah was bruised and sore, but had survived. 
She was a fighter, and in spite of my failure at the 
final showdown, I was happy the way all it turned 
out.  
But as much as I could never repay Captain 
Daggot for saving us, I still felt bad about my role 
in it. I’d hoped to be a hero, but it didn’t turn out 
that way at all. With McVey threatening Sarah, I 
never felt so weak or helpless in my life. It sure 
didn’t seem like the special moment I’d expected.  
I went to bed that night with a thousand thoughts 
running around in my head. This had been a tough 
day and I was glad it was over. 
The next morning after breakfast, Daggot, 
Whitey and I walked over to the Rogers’ hotel, to 
see how they were doing. To our surprise, when 
we arrived, Mr. Rogers was sitting up in bed and 
looking much better than anyone had expected.   
John E. Richman 
 
80 
“I don’t know how to thank you all,” Mr. Rogers 
said. “You saved our daughter and for that Mrs. 
Rogers and I will forever be grateful!”   
“Your welcome,” replied the Captain. “She took 
us on one heck of a ride!” 
“Yes, I understand she did.” replied Mr. Rogers. 
“I heard you wore out all the horses but one.” 
Mrs. Rogers then walked over and put her arms 
around me, giving me a hug I hadn’t seen the likes 
of since the morning I left the farm.  
“Montana, I especially want to thank you. When 
I turned to you for help I had my doubts that you 
were up to challenge. Those were very bad men 
and there were four of them. I feared I was sending 
you on a fool’s mission. Of course I didn’t know 
much about you or that horse of yours. It was 
Captain Daggot’s true eye that saved you and 
Sarah, but none of that would have happened if 
you hadn’t outlasted them all. Neither you nor that 
wonderful horse of yours gave up when it would 
have been an easy thing to do. It was really you 
that saved my family, and for that, I will always 
consider you a part of it. God bless you and your 
special horse.” 
Captain Daggot spoke up. “I couldn’t agree 
more, ma’m. After my horse winded, I couldn’t 
keep up with them. Whitey joined me later and all 
we could do was just keep following their trail, 
hoping at some point I’d get a chance to help. That 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
81 
chance wouldn’t have come without the courage 
and determination of this young man here, and his 
horse.” 
Sarah then walked over to me and gave me a big 
kiss on the cheek. “All I know is that you saved my 
life!” 
“Hey, hold on there!” Mr. Rogers broke the 
seriousness of the moment. “Mother said he was 
now part of the family, but we were thinking 
brother!” We all laughed. 
I felt better. Maybe Daggot and Mr. Rogers were 
right. Without Spirit and me keeping up the chase, 
McVey’s men wouldn’t have split off and Daggot 
would never have gotten the clear shot he needed. I 
needed some time to think it through, but I felt a 
little better about myself. 
“I thank you all for those nice words,” I replied, 
“but I’m no hero. The real hero is down at the 
livery, filling himself up on oats. But I’ll be sure to 
give him all your best when I get down there.”  
“You do that,” replied Mr. Rogers. “If the 
Doctor lets me, I’d like to come down there with 
you to thank him myself.” 
“Sure thing, Mr. Rogers. I know Spirit would 
like that.”  
As we left the Rogers’ hotel, I still wasn’t 
feeling “special” in the way I’d always thought 
about it, but maybe I was getting there. 
 
 
 
82 
Chapter 10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As much I was happy with how things turned 
out in Laramie, I was looking forward to the peace 
and quiet that the buffalo hunt promised. Daggot 
planned on our leaving Laramie early the next 
morning but asked that we all meet in the hotel 
saloon later that evening to talk about the trip. 
I was anxious to know what he had on his mind 
so I got there a little early. Sitting at the bar, it felt 
good to be able to order a beer and not have to look 
over my shoulder for McVey or his men. McVey 
wouldn’t be bothering anybody, anymore, and his 
men probably scattered like dust in wind. 
I’d just finished my beer when the Captain and 
Whitey walked down the stairs and found us a 
table. I noticed some stranger had given Whitey a 
bad look as he sat down. I kept forgetting he was 
an Indian, but I suppose there were always some 
men around that wouldn’t let him forget it. Daggot 
must have noticed as well because he returned the 
look. On seeing Daggot’s size, the stranger 
immediately turned and went about his business. I 
grew up with Indian friends and found nothing at 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
83 
all odd about Whitey’s company. In fact, he’d 
become a good friend throughout the past week, 
and contrary to Daggot’s early warning, I hadn’t 
found him moody at all. If the Captain was 
becoming a kind of a father figure to me, Whitey 
was fast becoming my brother.  
But this was the Wyoming territory in the year 
1885 and there were a lot of places Indians still 
weren’t welcome. I figured we’d try to stay away 
from those places. I guess to me there were Indians 
and there were Indians. Just like white folks. 
There’s some you take a liking to, and there’s 
some you don’t want anything to do with. This past 
week I’d seen my fill of both. 
Captain Daggot was obviously a man with a lot 
of history. He told me that before the war, he’d 
spent many of his Calvary years fighting Indians. 
Yet, he picked one as his hunting partner! I liked 
that in him. He did what was right, whether or not 
other people approved.  
I also liked the way he took charge of things. It 
was important sometimes that somebody did, and I 
didn’t see anybody else doing it. After the Carey 
brothers were killed, most people we ran into were 
thinking more about themselves and how the 
killings would effect them…even the stage line. I 
guess that was what my father called leadership -- 
taking charge when it was important that 
somebody did.  
John E. Richman 
 
84 
My thoughts were interrupted when the Captain, 
now pouring himself a whiskey out of the bottle, 
spoke up.  
“Montana, I guess you are wondering why I 
wanted to meet tonight? Well, I’ve been doing 
some thinking and I want to make you a proposal. 
As you know, it’s getting pretty cold out. I expect 
the snows to start in a few weeks, and after that, 
it’ll turn even nastier. That makes it hard to hunt 
buffalo and I’ve been thinking about your plans to 
head south. There’s really nothing keeping Whitey 
and me here and I seem to recall that winter’s a lot 
easier down Texas way. What would you think 
about moving our hunt south? You’d have some 
company on part of your trip and my old bones 
wouldn’t have to put up with another of these 
Wyoming winters. What do you think?” 
I didn’t need to think about that at all. “That 
would be fine with me, Captain. As you say, I 
could use the company. But you know I’m not 
really a buffalo man. I like being a cowhand and 
hope to meet up with one of those big outfits that 
runs cattle up from south of the Red River.” 
“I’m not askin’ you to change your plans at all,” 
Daggot continued. “As much as you’re not a 
buffalo man, I’m not a cowboy and am getting too 
old to try. I spent half my life on horseback and 
would just as soon leave all that behind me. You 
want to run cattle from Texas and I know a little 
town in Kansas called Dodge City, where the 
Chisholm Trail ends. If we head out that way, you 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
85 
might be able to hook up with one of those big 
outfits there.” 
Captain continued, “When I got out of the Army 
I worked for a while in Dodge City. I was even a 
lawman there briefly. I know the town pretty well. 
It would put me back in familiar territory and that 
wouldn’t be half bad. The buffalo have been thin 
since the big kill-off a decade ago, but there are a 
lot of other critters with good hides down there and 
I wouldn’t have to wade through two feet of snow 
to get to ‘em. I also read that Congress in Wash-
ington is working to open up some of the Indian 
lands in Oklahoma. Might be an opportunity to 
pick up a ranch of my own someday. Now I don’t 
want you to feel pushed. If you’d just as soon go 
on down there on your own, I understand. You’ve 
just come off a big week and If you’d rather part 
company for some quiet time, that’s fine with us. 
I’ve done the same myself on occasion and it’s 
good for a man to just think once in a while.” 
“Captain Daggot,” I replied, “I suspect you’re 
right about that time-to-think idea, but this is all 
new territory to me and I could use the company. 
I’ve tried traveling alone and, while I can do it, I 
think the three of us match up pretty well and 
could help each other along the way.” 
“Then it’s settled,” responded Daggot as he 
poured himself a second drink. “We’ll leave in the 
morning and see if we can beat the darn snow.” 
We got up early the next morning, and left 
Laramie in the dark. This time of year the sun 
John E. Richman 
 
86 
doesn’t get up until almost eight, and by then we’d 
already been on the trail for a couple of hours.  
While we rode, Captain started talking again 
about where we were going.  
“In those days, Dodge City was a pretty rough 
place, what with all the cowboys ending up there 
from the big drives. It’s where they got paid, and 
there were a lot of people interested in getting to 
that money. That’s how I got hooked up with the 
law. I left a saloon one night and got hit over the 
head and robbed by a couple of cowboys. Sheriff’s 
name was Lawrence Deger and he hired me as one 
of his Deputy’s. During the year I worked for him, 
I also worked with two of his assistants that later 
became pretty famous. You might have heard of 
Wyatt Earp and Bat Masterson?” 
I didn’t know if the Captain was spinnin’ a yarn 
or not. I’d heard of Wyatt Earp even up in Bighorn 
Lake. It would be great to think that Daggot 
actually knew him, but I’d have to have a little 
more proof than his say-so at this point. Though 
the more I heard about Dodge City, the more it 
sounded like the kind of place I wanted to visit. 
 Over the next week or so we worked our way to 
Cheyenne and then south, staying east of the 
mountains. I'd been around mountains most of my 
life but our views as we rode on toward Kansas 
were the likes of which I’d never seen. Colorado 
territory was like two different territories. To the 
west were the Rockies and some of the highest 
mountains in the range. To the east, the land fell 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
87 
off fast and was very flat. That’s where we were. 
Lots of ranches and farms, but not much to fix 
your eyes on as we rode. It all looked pretty much 
the same. But the views behind us were something. 
I was used to the sudden rise of the Tetons off the 
Wyoming flatland, but this was different. The 
Colorado Rockies were bigger and looked to go 
straight up. From our trail, it looked like a giant 
wall, with snow on top. The wall started well 
north, around the Wyoming border. As we rode 
south, it got bigger, even as we moved further 
away. I couldn't imagine any wagon getting 
through those mountains. It was now clear to me 
why the wagon trains mostly took the Oregon Trail 
through the Wyoming country.  
A few days into our second week on the trail, we 
were so far east that the mountains finally 
disappeared behind us. This particular morning 
was sunny and a little warmer than it should have 
been for November. We’d just crossed a stream 
and, rising up the east side of the gully, we saw 
smoke way up ahead. Captain and Whitey talked 
some about prairie fire but decided the smoke was 
too dark and wasn't wide enough, so we kept 
heading toward it.  
As we got closer we could see that it was coming 
from a small area in a woods. Still closer, we could 
hear the fire crackling, though by that time it 
seemed the smoke was beginning to die down.  
We got to a clearing we saw what had been a 
pretty good sized house and barn -- both burned to 
John E. Richman 
 
88 
the ground with only the rock chimney left 
standing. Oddly, between the house and barn, a 
small split rail corral was still intact, and there 
were two horses in it. Both looked like draw horses 
but they were very spooked over the fire. It seemed 
strange how the fire burned down both the house 
and barn, yet jumped the corral between them. I 
wondered where the rancher’d gone, and why he 
didn't take the horses away from the fire. 
Daggot quickly dismounted. "Let's check out the 
house first," he said. Whitey and I dismounted and 
joined Daggot in walking around the house ashes, 
some of which were still smoldering. After a few 
minutes of not finding much, I noticed Whitey left 
the house ashes and walked over to the barn area. 
A moment later he yelled, "Over here Cap," he 
said, pointing to a pile of burnt timbers in what 
looked like the middle of the barn. "Man and 
woman." 
I'd seen dead people before but never burned. At 
first you couldn't tell they were people at all. Just 
black ashes.  
"How do you know it's a man and a women?" I 
asked. 
Whitey pointed to what must have been a hand 
and fingers on one of the bodies. There was a 
blackened ring with a stone in it on one of the 
fingers.  
"They were probably out here to save the barn 
with the timber fell on them," added Daggot. "Very 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
89 
sad to see folks die this way. When the cinders 
cool, we'll bury them."  
While we were waiting, I walked over to the 
corral and tried to calm the horses down. I wasn't 
sure what we would do with them. Probably take 
them with us to the next ranch or town where we 
could tell somebody about the fire. While I was in 
the corral, I noticed that Whitey’d moved again. 
Now he’d left the fire area and walked back into 
the woods, thirty or forty feet off the main lot. I 
didn't think much of it until he yelled. "CAP 
HERE, CAP HERE!" he yelled. Captain Daggot 
and I walked around the ashes to where he’d 
entered the woods. It was then I first heard the 
other voice. A kind of muffled cry. It wasn't 
Whitey’s voice and didn’t sound like an animal. It 
sounded like a small person.  
We walked up to see that Whitey was standing 
ten feet from a child. I wasn't sure if it was a boy or 
girl. The clothes looked more like a nightshirt than 
regular clothes and were wet and dirty. The child 
looked scared and was crying. 
Captain Daggot put his arms out and approached 
the child slowly. "Settle down now, little one. We 
need to know who you are and what happened. 
We're not going to hurt you." 
 Seeing that we were there to help, the child 
stopped crying and walked out into the sunlight. 
She told us her name was Daisy and that she’d 
been in the woods since her mother sent her there 
John E. Richman 
 
90 
during the night. We weren’t sure if she knew her 
folks were dead. 
 Captain asked her how old she was and she 
replied that she was “almost thirteen.” Her full 
name was Daisy Peterson and those were clearly 
her folks back in the barn.  
 “Where are my mother and father?” she asked, 
looking over to the still smoking ashes that used to 
be her home. 
 “Your parents are dead,” replied Daggot, in a 
much more straightforward way than I would have 
done it. “We found them in the barn.” 
I expected the child to burst into tears on hearing 
the news, but she didn’t. Instead, she started 
walking over toward the pile of charred wood that 
had been the barn. Daggot motioned for me to stop 
her so I walked over quick to block her path.  
“Daisy, you don’t want to go into that area,” I 
said, “The fire is still hot and you could get hurt.” 
“I know, but I want to see them,” she replied. 
“That’s not a good idea, little one,” said Daggot, 
now standing next to me. “I have a better idea,” he 
continued. “We’ll stay with them until we can get 
them properly buried but we’ll need someone to 
tend our horses. If we’re going to be here a while, 
we need to get those saddles off and get them some 
water. Do you suppose you could help Montana 
here do all that?” 
“I guess so,” she replied, and reluctantly follow-
ed me in the direction of the horses. 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
91 
Daisy and I unsaddled the horses and led them 
over to their nearby stream for water. She was very 
upset over the loss of her home and parents but I 
tried to keep her away from the mess, and get her 
mind off it a little. 
I introduced her to Spirit and told her he was one 
of the fastest horses in the territory. She told me 
she had an uncle back in New York, who raised 
horses.  
“I’ve never been there, but my father told me that 
his brother raised racing horses for the racetracks.”  
“I’d love to see them someday,” I replied. “I’d 
like to see what he’d think of Spirit. I might even 
race some of his race horses, and see how fast they 
really are!” 
After about half an hour, Captain Daggot came 
down to the stream and told us it was time we said 
some words over her parent’s graves. When we got 
back to the clearing, there were two fresh graves 
next to each other, under a large tree on the edge of 
the property.  
Captain Daggot asked us to bow our heads and 
pray with him.  
 
“Dear God, please take these two folks 
into your kingdom of heaven. We pray 
this in the name of Jesus Christ and 
their little girl Daisy.”  
 
It wasn’t much of a ceremony but it was the first 
time I’d seen Captain Daggot so serious. He’d 
John E. Richman 
 
92 
never mentioned God before and I didn’t know he 
was a religious man, but his words were right for 
the situation and maybe helped Daisy. She would 
need all the help she could get. 
I thought back to my folks, probably working the 
fields, getting ready for the first freeze. Captain’s 
words made me think that one day I would lose 
them, too, and I felt bad for leaving. I hadn’t been 
home in a long time, and wondered how they were 
doing without me. I also wondered how my sister 
Mary was doing. I made a promise to myself to 
send them a letter as soon as I could.  
Daisy told us knew the way to the neighbor’s 
ranch, an hours ride east. There was no saddle for 
her to ride on as not much had escaped the fire, but 
she said she could ride one of her horses bareback. 
Fortunately, we managed to find a bridle hanging 
on one of the corral posts, and proceeded to get 
one her horses ready. 
We left with Daisy riding bareback next to me, 
and the other horse following along behind. The 
trip to Dodge would take longer now, but we 
needed to get this girl to a neighbor or a relative as 
soon as we could. I know that Daggot was curious 
about how the fire that had taken her parents had 
started, but that would just have to remain a 
mystery for now. As strong as Daisy was trying to 
be, we knew she needed more help than we could 
give her. 
Following her directions, we rode southeast, at 
first on a horse trail through the woods, and after 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
93 
the woods ended, out on open prairie. With our 
group now having grown to include a little girl 
riding bareback and two draw horses, our progress 
was slow. About an hour out, we came over a 
small rise and could see another ranch ahead. This 
ranch house wasn't on the main trail, but set maybe 
thirty yards off it, on a private road. As we made 
the turn onto that road, we rode under a wooden 
arch with the name "Triple T" carved into a large 
board. The main house was quite large -- three 
stories. Surrounding it were several out-buildings 
that included a big barn and two or three corrals, 
suggesting some sort of livestock ranch -- probably 
cattle, though none were visible.  
Daisy told us this was the Taylor place. Mr. 
Taylor had been a friend of her father’s and, lately, 
a regular guest out at their place. We rode up on a 
man who was mending a fence near one of the 
smaller buildings. 
"Mornin'," said the Captain. The man stood up 
and took notice. 
"My name's Daggot and we're here to report a 
fire up the trail." 
"You need to go see Mr. Taylor at the main 
house," he said, pointing toward the house, and 
immediately returned to his work.  
“Not a very talkative fellow, was he?” I 
commented. 
We rode up toward the main house. On our 
approach, the front door opened and a man we 
assumed to be Mr. Taylor, came out to greet us. 
John E. Richman 
 
94 
"What do we have here?" he said. 
The Captain responded, "We've brought the girl 
here to report a fire out at her place. We were 
heading for Dodge City when we saw the smoke. 
We followed it in. Her house and barn were burned 
and her folks killed. She thought you might be able 
to provide some help."  
"My God!" responded the man. "Daisy may have 
already told you, my name's Taylor. Walt Taylor, 
and we were neighbors. What happened?" 
"Mr. Taylor," answered the Captain, "We really 
don't know. By the time we got there, the fire was 
nearly out. The house and barn were burned to the 
ground. We found her folks under a fallen beam, in 
what was the middle of the barn. Didn't see girl at 
first as she was hiding in the woods." 
By this time a woman who I assumed was Mrs. 
Taylor came out as well. On hearing Daggot's 
explanation, she went over to Daisy's horse and 
helped her down. "You come with me Daisy. You 
look a sight, girl. Let's get you out of those wet 
clothes." 
Daggot dismounted and shook hands with Mr. 
Taylor. Whitey and I dismounted as well, to join 
them. 
"This is terrible," exclaimed Mr. Taylor. "Did 
she tell you anything about it?" 
"She didn't seem to know much about it," replied 
Daggot. "Her folks got her up in the night. Got her 
out of the house and left her safe to try to save the 
barn. Looked like they were inside when the roof 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
95 
collapsed, pinning them down. We could barely 
recognize them. The girl was hiding in the woods 
nearby. We heard her crying and brought her out. 
It's a sad thing to see for anyone, much less a 
young girl like Daisy. She brought us here on one 
of the two horses that survived. Strangely, their 
corral didn’t burn and was still in good shape."  
"We appreciate your bringing her here," said Mr. 
Taylor. "Peterson was a good neighbor and I find it 
hard to believe he and the Missus are gone. Daisy's 
mother was a fine woman and it's easy to 
understand that she was out there trying to help 
save the barn. Where are they now?" 
Daggot responded, "We buried their ashes under 
a tree in the yard. The graves are covered with 
rocks so they’re easy to see. Maybe you could get 
a real preacher out there to say the right words and 
put up a marker. We tried for the girl's sake, but 
I'm sure it could be done better." 
"We'll take care of it,” Taylor said. “I understand 
Peterson may have a brother somewhere back east. 
We’ll see if we can get in touch with him. In the 
meantime, she can stay in my daughter’s room 
while she’s away at school. We can't thank you 
enough for helping out. You say you were on your 
way to Dodge City? It's an hour’s ride east of here. 
Is there anything we can do for you? How about 
some food and drink? We were just about to have 
lunch." 
"I'd never turn down food," replied Daggot, "but 
we'd like to get back on the trail as soon as we can. 
John E. Richman 
 
96 
Could we water up and maybe buy some flour and 
meat from you?" 
"No problem. You and your men water your 
horses over at the main barn and we'll put together 
some food for you to take along. It won't be long."  
"We'd be much obliged," answered Daggot. "I'd 
like to see the little girl once more before we leave 
it that would be alright with you and the Missus." 
"I'm sure that won't be a problem. I'll get her out 
here as soon as Mrs. Taylor settles her down. This 
must be very hard on her and I'm sure she would 
want to thank you men herself. Incidentally, Mr. 
Daggot, you look a bit familiar to me. Have we 
met before somewhere?" 
"It's Captain, and I'm not sure. I spent some time 
in Dodge City some years ago, and met a lot of 
folks. If you spent any time in town, I suppose it's 
possible." 
"I'm not sure either," Taylor responded, "I'm 
pretty good with faces and names and you look 
familiar. Maybe it will come to me." 
We walked our horses over toward the main barn 
and found the trough.  
"What do you think, Captain? Did Mr. Taylor 
look familiar to you," I asked. 
"Face is different, but it might be that I've heard 
that voice before. The problem with being a 
lawman in a place like Dodge is that you meet a lot 
of people and most of them are in trouble with the 
law in some way or another. It's not the best way to 
meet them. And, like I said, it was nearly ten years 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
97 
ago.”  
The man who we’d spoken to on the way in, was 
up now and walked by us on his way to the house 
without any comment at all.  
“He didn’t even look our way,” I pointed out. 
“Seems funny.” 
“A few things seem funny around here,” replied 
Daggot. “Lots of barns and fences, but no cattle, no 
horses or anything.” 
“Maybe they’re out grazin’ in pastures some-
where,” I offered. 
“Could be,” replied Daggot. “But there’s no feed 
around and the few tracks near the trough are ours. 
I’m not sure what the Triple T Ranch ranches, but 
it doesn’t look very active.”  
About then, Whitey walked up and pointed 
toward a smaller barn just off the main lot. He 
whispered something to the Captain and they both 
walked back to it. I left the horses at the trough and 
followed them. 
Behind the smaller barn were two wagons, full to 
the brim with mechanical equipment. I walked 
over to one of them and pulled back the canvas 
tarp that covered most of it. 
“What’s all this?” I asked in a quiet voice? 
“Looks like pumping equipment of some kind,” 
replied Daggot. “All pretty new too. Maybe Taylor 
isn’t a rancher at all.” 
We moved back to where the horses were 
drinking and a few minutes later Mr. and Mrs. 
Taylor came back out with Daisy. She looked a 
John E. Richman 
 
98 
little more comfortable in dry clothes. Mr. Taylor 
gave the Captain a small sack, tied off at the top. 
“There’s some bacon and beans in here for your 
trip. Hopefully it will be enough to get you where 
you’re going,” he said. 
“We thank you very much and I’d like to pay 
you for it,” responded Daggot. 
“No need,” answered Mr. Taylor. “Seems like a 
fit reward for your good work today,” 
“Again, we’re much obliged,” Daggot 
responded. 
“No,” replied Mrs. Taylor. “We’re the ones that 
are obliged to you for bringing Daisy to us. I’m 
sure she thanks you, too.” 
“Yes ma’m,” Daisy said. She then walked over 
to Captain Daggot and looked up. “Thank you for 
your help, Mr. Captain.” 
She then turned and walked over to where Spirit 
and I were standing. She reached in her pocket and 
pulled out a skinned carrot, offering it to Spirit 
who immediately began gobbling it up. 
“You’re very welcome, Daisy,” Daggot respond-
ed. “You’ve had a very bad thing happen to you 
today but you’re safe now with these folks and you 
need to get some rest.”  
Daisy patted Spirit’s head while he chewed up 
her offering. I could see tears in her eyes for the 
first time since we found her. She didn’t say 
anything else, but her tears said it all. 
Daggot threw me the sack and I put it in my 
saddlebag. I thanked Daisy for the carrot and we 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
99 
mounted our horses and headed out. As we rode, 
our thoughts remained on the little girl we’d just 
left behind. I kept thinking that it must be hard 
enough to lose one parent at her age, much less 
both at the same time. All we could do was hope 
the Taylors would take good care of her. 
 
 
 
100
Chapter 11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The sun was already low when we got into 
Dodge City. Having heard stories about Marshal 
Earp, Boot Hill, and the famous Long Branch 
Saloon, I thought it would be bigger. As we rode 
down Main Street, it had a small town feel, 
reminding me more of Laramie.  
Captain Daggot must have been telling the truth 
about having worked here because he seemed to 
know his way around. As we passed by the Long 
Branch, Daggot pointed out the alley where he’d 
been robbed those many years ago. 
We continued on into town, passing several other 
hotels and saloons, and finally arriving at the jail. 
There was a deputy with a star on his shirt sitting 
in a rocking chair on the boardwalk, just outside 
the door.  
“Evenin’,” said Daggot. “Who’s Sheriff around 
here nowadays?” 
“Who’s askin’?” replied the man with the star. 
“John Daggot.” 
“Well, Mr. Daggot, Marshal Tilghman is County 
Marshal, but he’s gone home for the day. I’m one 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
101 
of his deputies. Is there anything I can do for you?” 
“I wanted to talk to the Marshal about a fire we 
ran into a ways back, but it can wait until 
tomorrow. When do you expect he’ll be in?” 
Marshal Tilghman’s usually here by eight 
o’clock. If you stopped by after that, you’d likely 
catch him.”  
“Much obliged,” said Daggot, “we’ll do just 
that.”  
The Captain then led us out toward the east end 
of town, to a hotel named “Hotel.” As we entered, 
there was a bearded man standing behind the 
counter, counting money.  
Daggot stared at him for a moment before he 
spoke. “Jim…is that you?” 
The man looked up and focused for a moment on 
the Captain, seemingly unsure of who he was 
looking at. 
“Is that you Daggot? I’ll be darned. It’s been a 
long time!” As the Captain assured him that he was 
right on both counts, the man walked out from 
behind the counter and shook the hand of his old 
friend.  
“Shoot, John, how long’s it been? Nearly ten 
years, I’d guess. What have you been up to?” he 
inquired.  
“Jim, first let me introduce you to two friends of 
mine. This is Whitey, my skinner, and this young 
fellow goes by Montana. We just came into town 
from Wyoming and are looking forward to meeting 
up with the Marshal in the morning. Can you put 
John E. Richman 
 
102
us up?” 
“Sure can if you boys don’t mind sharing a few 
rooms. We’re a little tight for the next few days 
with a new drive in town.” 
The man turned to me and reached for my hand. 
“Name’s Jim Masterson, good to meet any friends 
of the old Captain here.”  
Turning back to Daggot, Mr. Masterson contin-
ued, “I’m glad you remembered my hotel business. 
Keeps me so busy I’ve left most of the lawman 
work to Bill. He’s probably who you’re waiting to 
see. Truth is, the fine folks of Ford County saw fit 
to elect Bill, county marshal, and me, town sheriff. 
Bill was supposed to be helping me, but with my 
hotel work, I guess I’m more his assistant nowa-
days. But, since I still carry the title, I’d be glad to 
help if I can. What’s on your minds?” 
“We might just take you up on that, Jim,” replied 
Daggot. “What’s say you get us those rooms and 
we’ll get cleaned up and meet you later for a 
drink?”  
By this time, two other cowboys had come in 
behind us and were waiting for rooms themselves. 
“That’d be fine with me,” Masterson said. “Give 
me a little time to finish up around here. I can give 
you six and eight up the stairs.” With that, he 
handed Daggot two keys and told us where to bed 
down our horses. 
We met up around seven in the hotel lobby. 
Sheriff Masterson had changed clothes and now 
wore a silver star on his shirt. There wasn’t a bar in 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
103 
his hotel so he led us down the street to the Stage 
Saloon where we quickly ordered a round of 
drinks. 
“So, Captain, what are you so all fired up to tell 
the law here in Dodge?” opened Masterson. 
“Jim, I’m not so sure this is anything at all, but 
we ran across a fire while riding in and thought it 
best if we reported it to someone.” 
Captain Daggot proceeded to tell his old friend 
how we discovered the house fire and found Daisy 
and her parents.  
“I suppose it was just one of those unfortunate 
things but the fact that the house and barn burned 
while the corral in between survived, left me with 
an uncomfortable feeling about the whole thing. It 
just didn’t seem natural. Also, the little girl told us 
that the neighbor Taylor had been out to their place 
several times lately. She didn’t know why.” 
“What do you think John, that the fire was 
deliberately set? Do you suspect Taylor?” 
Masterson’s response surprised me. We’d never 
spoken about that even among ourselves, but 
having heard the Sheriff put it into words, we must 
have all been thinking the same thing. Sheriff 
Masterson must be a pretty good lawman, I 
thought. He’d picked right up on that. 
“I wouldn’t jump there yet, Jim,” responded 
Daggot. “I guess it could have just been a terrible 
accident. Taylor seemed like a nice enough fellow 
when we were there. One other thing though, while 
we were at his place, we saw a couple of wagons 
John E. Richman 
 
104
full of new pumping equipment behind one of his 
barns. No livestock, just a lot of new pumping 
equipment. Does that mean anything to you?” 
“It might,” responded Masterson. “John, there’s 
a lot of history here and I’m not sure you want to 
know about it. I’ll make you a deal. You can finish 
your drinks and go about your business here, 
or…you can stick around and hear a long story 
about brothers. It’s your call, but before you make 
your decision, let me warn you. This story involves 
some people you know and you’re going to have a 
hard time hearing it and not getting involved. Take 
a minute to think about that before you answer.” 
Daggot listened, and turned his eyes from his old 
friend to his drink. After a quiet pause, he looked 
up at Whitey and me. We both nodded as if to 
approve whatever he was thinking.  
He then looked back at Masterson and spoke. 
“We’ve got to know, Jim. Let’s have it.” 
 
 
105 
Chapter 12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our talk with the Sheriff looked like it might be 
a long one, so Captain told me to buy another 
bottle before Masterson began. I did and returned 
to the table just as he started. 
“First Jim, remind me when exactly it was you 
left here. I don’t need to tell you things you already 
know.” 
Captain Daggot responded, “I believe I pulled 
out about the same time Deger was appointed 
Sheriff. I never took to Deger the way some did, 
and couldn’t support his taking the job. Truth is, I 
thought Bat or Wyatt should have gotten it. I guess 
I just got tired of the politics. It was in October of 
that year that I went west. Seems to me it was late 
Fall of ‘75, just about ten years ago this month.” 
 “I would have guessed around then,” Sheriff 
Masterson began. “I do remember that you didn’t 
have much use for Deger after he arrested Bat. 
Young Montana, what you don’t know is that I 
have two other brothers that figure fairly 
prominently in the Dodge City history. My older 
John E. Richman 
 
106
brother Bat, my younger brother Ed, and I, all 
worked at one time or another as lawmen for either 
Ford County or Dodge City. Your friend, Captain 
Daggot, worked with us here in Dodge for a 
while.” 
“Back in those days a good old boy named 
Charlie Basset was Sheriff of all Ford County. 
Charlie was a good man and hired the best to work 
for him. You should understand that as wild as 
Dodge is today, ten years ago it was much wilder. 
There hadn’t been much law here before that, and, 
with the cowboys coming up from Texas, and the 
buffalo hunters coming in from anywhere and 
everywhere, there was a lot of money coming into 
town. There were robberies, gunfights and outright 
killings every week. The good people of Ford 
County wanted it to end, and they hired Charlie 
Basset to end it. Charlie knew he needed some 
good men to help him, so he hired a number of 
assistants and deputies. My brother Bat and Wyatt 
Earp came on as assistants. Along the way he also 
hired my brother Ed, Larry Deger, and the man 
sitting right between us.”  
He continued, “Those were some crazy times. 
Your Captain here got himself hired after he’d 
been bopped over the head and robbed, right 
outside the Long Branch. He was so determined to 
catch the men that robbed him, he caught the eye 
of Charlie, who talked him into signing up as a 
deputy himself -- and he was a good one. I know 
because that was about the time I signed on, too, 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
107 
and we worked many a night together. Well, as 
your friend explained, Larry Deger became Sheriff 
in late ’75. At that time both Bat and Wyatt were 
still assistants. A few years later, both of them 
were made full time sheriffs. At any rate, things 
went pretty well until summer of ’77.” 
“There was a killing in town that summer that 
involved a thirteen year old boy. Looked to most 
folks like the boy’d been murdered in cold blood. 
A local character with a long arrest record named 
Bobby Gill was accused of the killing. Only 
problem was that Bat had done the investigation, 
and he never thought Gill was guilty. Supposedly, 
under orders from Charlie Bassett, Deger ended up 
ordering Bat to arrest Gill, but Bat refused. For his 
refusal, Deger had Bat arrested, too. Of course, if 
you all knew Bat the way Captain and I do, you’d 
understand better why he refused. You see, Bat 
placed a lot of stock in people being honorable, 
and he was convinced Gill was innocent. That 
wasn’t real popular with Sheriff Deger, and since 
Charlie was in the process of leaving his job and 
preoccupied, he left the whole matter up to Deger 
to handle. Bat went to jail for a few months until 
the real murderer was discovered. It later turned 
out that the boy’d been approached by the local 
drunk for money that night. When he refused to 
give him any, the drunk pulled a gun and hit the 
boy over the head, killing him right then and there, 
on that dark street. Not long after, Bobby Gill 
happened by and found him. While Gill always 
John E. Richman 
 
108
denied any involvement, his reputation wasn’t 
good either, and people rushed to judgment. Gill 
stayed in jail for several months until the man 
who’d actually done the killing had too much to 
drink again one night and boasted about it in front 
of one of the deputies. Gill was later cleared and 
Bat’s reputation restored. But, Bat never forgave 
Deger, mostly for not listening to him, and some 
for having him arrested in the first place. In the fall 
of that year, Deger was up for re-election for 
County Sheriff. Bat ran against him and won.” 
By this time I was having a little trouble keeping 
it all straight. “With all due respect Sheriff, what’s 
any of this got to do with the Peterson’s fire?” 
“Slow down Montana,” replied Sheriff Master-
son with a smile, “impatience is a dangerous virtue 
in Dodge. What I didn’t tell you was that the drunk 
who killed that boy, was named Curtis Taylor. 
Curtis hadn’t always been the town drunk. They 
say he got that way when his brother cheated him 
out of his inheritance. You see, Curtis was 
Walter’s older brother! That’s until Curtis got 
himself hung for killing that boy. Their father, 
Jacob, used to own half of Ford County. All that 
land you rode through from the Peterson place to 
Dodge, used to be Taylor land. Years before, 
Jacob’s wife had died of consumption. Not long 
after that, that Jacob himself died, leaving all his 
property to his two sons, Walter and Curtis. But 
problems began right after Jacob’s funeral. We 
never knew all the facts but we do know that, at 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
109 
some point, Curtis was turned out, leaving 
everything to Walter and his wife. Curtis never got 
over it, and drank himself near to death before he 
killed that boy. We never knew all the facts around 
that either, but after he’d admitted it, he was tried, 
convicted and hung. His brother never attended 
either the trial or the hanging.” 
Daggot spoke up, “Now that you mention it, 
Taylor’s voice did seem familiar to me. Did we 
ever have reason to deal with him in those days?” 
“Very likely,” responded Masterson. “Walter 
was the smart one and had been sent off to school 
in the east. When he came back home he was a 
little wild himself. Got into a number of scrapes in 
town before he settled down and got married. For a 
time, he was a regular guest in our jail…mostly for 
disturbing the peace and such. You well might 
have run him in once or twice. I know I did.” 
Masterson continued, “Anyway, after he mar-
ried, he and his wife settled back at the ranch and 
we haven’t heard too much from him lately. His 
father used to run a lot of cattle out there, but there 
was some trouble with water and Walter ended up 
selling off most the herd. I’m not sure what they’re 
doing out there now and, except for church on 
Sunday, we don’t see either of them in town too 
often.” 
Daggot interrupted, “So what do you think all 
that equipment he’s got there at the ranch is for?  
“Can’t tell exactly -- might have something to do 
with his water problem. You see before old Jacob 
John E. Richman 
 
110
died, his cattle business had shrunk to the point 
where he had to sell off some land to keep the 
place going. A few sections went to new folks in 
the area. Peterson was one of them. Before he died, 
Peterson was probably sitting on a couple of 
hundred acres that used to be Taylor land. I know 
the area because I used to hunt it with Bat and Ed. 
There’s a nice little fishing lake up there, too. I 
suspect that’s why Peterson bought it. That land 
tends to be too dry to grow much. Said he planned 
to irrigate it from the lake and farm it. I guess he 
never got that far along.” 
“Where’s Bat now?” asked Daggot. “Is he still 
around the area?” 
“Not right now,” answered Masterson as he 
poured himself another drink. “Sheriff’n took Bat 
out of town a lot and in ’79 he lost the election. I 
was appointed to the job a few years later. I’ve had 
him back off and on since, to help me out, but he 
hasn’t stayed around. A few years ago he came 
back and started up a small newspaper, but sold it 
last year and took off back to Colorado. I haven’t 
heard much from him in the past six months, but 
with Bat, that’s good news.” 
“How about Wyatt?” Daggot continued. “I heard 
he left as well.” 
“Somewhere around ’80, when things were just 
starting to settle down around here, Wyatt left for 
Arizona. Folks down there had heard about him 
and offered him a lot of money to come out and to 
be sheriff of a little town called Tombstone. You 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
111 
might have seen his name in the papers a few years 
back. Seems Wyatt, along with Morgan, Virgil, 
and Doc Holiday, took on the Clanton brothers. 
Morgan and Virg got hurt in the scuffle. But I 
haven’t seen any of them since.” 
“Well, it’s good to see you again Jim, and 
getting caught up a little. I’m glad to see you’re 
doin’ well,” replied Daggot, “but I’m still a little 
troubled by what happened back at the Peterson 
place. I’d like to look into it more, but need get 
hunting before I go broke. Is there anyone on your 
staff that could handle that?” 
“Our staff’s gotten a lot smaller over the past few 
years John,” responded Masterson. “It’s down to 
Tilghman, Ed, me, and a few deputies. I don’t 
suppose I could talk you back into the law business 
again?” 
“I don’t think so, I had enough of that years ago. 
I’m a hunter now. Don’t have much and don’t need 
much. And Montana here says he wants to run 
cattle up the old trail, so I suspect he’s going to be 
doing other things, too. Still, I have a bad feeling 
about that fire and what you’ve shared with us 
tonight hasn’t improved it a bit. I hate to just leave 
it the way it is.” 
“I’ll tell you what,” replied the Sheriff. “You go 
about your business and I’ll take a ride out that 
way in a few days when my schedule opens up and 
see what it all looks like to me.” 
“I’d feel a lot better about that, Jim. I’d like to 
help but it’s been too long since Whitey and I had 
John E. Richman 
 
112
a good hunt and we’re overdue.” 
“How about you, Montana?” asked Sheriff 
Masterson. “What’s your plan for the next few 
days?”  
That was a good question. Now that I was here 
in Dodge City, I was expecting to get a job with 
one of the Texas outfits, but I didn’t have any 
immediate need to do so, and was flattered that the 
Sheriff would ask.  
“Turns out I have no plans for the next week or 
so, Sheriff. The Captain knows I’m no hunter and 
I’d be proud to be able to say I’d helped one of the 
famous Masterson brothers.” 
“I don’t know about that,” he replied. “I can’t 
deputize you, so I can’t pay you, but if you’ll give 
me a hand I’ll keep you in the hotel and see to it 
that you don’t go hungry.” 
“That’s good enough for me. When do you think 
we should head out?” 
“I need to tend the hotel for another day or two, 
until my manager gets back from a trip. Why don’t 
you get used to town and we can head out after I 
free up. In meantime your stay at the hotel is free 
and you’ll eat dinner with me.” 
“I’ll do that,” I replied. Then, turning toward the 
Captain and Whitey, I said, “I guess that means 
we’re finally parting ways Captain. I want to thank 
you for letting me travel with you over the last few 
weeks, and I’ll really miss you both.” 
“Montana,” Captain said, “we’ll miss you, too. 
This is a big country out here, but not so big that 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
113 
we won’t run into one another again. Whitey and I 
may stop by from time to time to see how you 
made out with this fire business. You stay out of 
trouble and listen to Sheriff Jim. There’s a lot he 
can teach you but you have to stay alive to learn 
it.”  
“I’ll do my best to do just that,” I replied, 
shaking hands with both Captain and Whitey. 
“Here’s to a good hunt,” I said, raising my beer 
glass.  
“To both of us!” added Daggot, raising his as 
well. 
 
 
114
Chapter 13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As Sheriff Masterson had suggested, I spent the 
next few days roaming around and getting familiar 
with Dodge. At first, I limited my wanderings to 
the main streets but after a few days, I began to 
poke around at the edges. One of the things that 
impressed me the most was the stockyard. Located 
just north of town, I’d never seen anything so big. 
One of the hands out there told me it was over two 
miles long! He said over three-hundred thousand 
cattle come through there every year. The main 
corral could hold over five-thousand cattle at one 
time! There weren’t that many there now but I 
imagined what it might look like when it was full. 
And every one of them driven in by hundreds of 
cowboys. I imagined that Sheriff Masterson wasn’t 
exaggerating when he said it was a lot to handle.  
Speaking of Sheriff Masterson, I took him up on 
his offer for dinners and ate with him the next two 
nights. I was surely beginning to miss having the 
Captain and Whitey around, but the Sheriff was a 
very interesting man, too, and he had no problem 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
115 
sharing some of his own and the town’s history 
with me. I was particularly interested when he 
talked about when he and Daggot worked with his 
brothers, Sheriff Earp and Doc Holiday. Stories of 
them, particularly of Earp and Holiday, had travel-
ed the west for years, and even gotten as far north 
as Montana. I was curious to find out how much of 
it was really true. From what Sheriff Masterson 
told me, much of it was. 
My third day in Dodge was to be my last for 
killing time. Sheriff Masterson told me to stick 
around, as we’d be visiting Taylor’s some time 
tomorrow. The weather’d turned sour and I stayed 
pretty much in town anyway, spending time in and 
out of the dry goods and hardware stores. 
Sometime mid-morning, I had just come out of 
one of the stores when I spotted Daisy sitting 
outside the church across the street. I guessed Mr. 
Taylor was likely talking to the preacher about 
services for her folks. 
“Hey, Daisy!” I shouted as I crossed the muddy 
wagon tracks to see her. “What brings you to the 
big city?” 
“Oh, hi Montana!” I’m here with Mr. and Mrs. 
Taylor. They’re in the church now.” 
“I guessed as much. How have you been doing? 
Are you adjusting to life at the Taylor’s?” 
“I guess so,” she replied. I have my own room 
there and Mrs. Taylor has been real nice. But I 
miss my mother and father and my own house.” 
“I’m sure you will for a long time,” I replied. 
John E. Richman 
 
116
“But I’m just as sure that you’ll adjust to it in time 
and be happy again soon.” 
“I don’t know,” she sighed. “I hope you’re right. 
Where’s Spirit? How is he?” 
“Oh, Spirit’s fine,” I said, “he’s staying out of 
the rain, down at the livery. I’m sure he’d like to 
see you whenever you can stop by.”  
 On hearing those words, I could see a little 
brightness come to Daisy’s face. She looked up at 
me, “That would be great. Let me ask Mr. Taylor if 
we have time now.” 
I waited with her a few more minutes until we 
were joined by Mrs. Taylor, who had come out of 
the church first. 
“Mornin’, ma’am,” I said as she approached. 
“Good morning to you, sir,” she responded. It 
was clear she remembered me, but not my name.  
“Montana,” I offered.  
“Why, yes…Montana. How are you today?”  
“I’m doing fine, ma’am. Thank you for asking. 
We were wondering if there was time for Daisy to 
come down to the livery with me to help feed my 
horse?” 
“Oh yes, Mrs. Taylor. Could I?” pleaded Daisy. 
“Well, Mr. Taylor and I do have another appoint-
ment here in town. We’ll be at the Land Office for 
another hour or so I suspect. If it’s not too much of 
an imposition on you, I don’t see any harm in it. 
Can you have her back here in an hour?” 
“Yes ma’am,” I replied.  
With that, Daisy’s face lit up and she quickly left 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
117 
her place on the bench to join me in our wet walk 
down to the livery. 
By now it was raining even harder, so we stayed 
in the shadow of the buildings as long as we could. 
I looked back to see that Mr. Taylor had also come 
out of the church and he and Mrs. Taylor were 
heading the other direction.  
I recalled she said their next errand involved the 
Land Office. I thought back to Sheriff Masterson’s 
comments from a few days ago and wondered if 
the Taylors were planning any new land deals. 
Maybe something involving their neighbor’s now-
available land. 
The livery was about a quarter-mile across town 
and even though we tried to stay out of the rain, 
Daisy and I were pretty wet by the time we got 
there. To my relief, we found Spirit had been kept 
inside the stable and was warm and dry. 
I don’t know if he recognized Daisy or not, but it 
seemed like he did. It wouldn’t have mattered 
anyway because Spirit liked kids. 
Daisy and I found an empty bag and filled it with 
oats, then took it into his stall for a mid-day snack. 
Spirit immediately dropped his head into the bag 
and took a mouthful. He liked the oats and the 
attention.  
After finishing the bag, Daisy grabbed a brush 
and began brushing him down. Spirit seemed to be 
enjoying himself, so we took our time. I think it 
was good for Daisy to get her mind off her recent 
tragedy, but it also occurred me that she might be 
John E. Richman 
 
118
getting a little too attached to Spirit, and, since 
they would be separated soon, I began to turn the 
conversation to something else. 
“Daisy, how have you been spending your time 
out at the Taylor’s?” I asked. 
“Mostly helping Mrs. Taylor,” she replied. 
“We’ve been doing some canning and cleaned out 
a room for me to stay in. Mr. Taylor is in town 
today to see the Preacher about a proper funeral for 
my parents and to send a telegram off to my uncle. 
If they can reach him, I might be leaving the 
Taylor’s to stay with him, back east.” 
“I know this must be very hard for you,” I said. 
“But I’m sure it will work out, somehow.” 
I didn’t have a clue how it would work out for 
her, but she needed to start thinking less about her 
loss and more about school and friends and other 
such things that twelve year olds should be think-
ing about. 
We spent a little more time with Spirit and then 
said goodbye and started our walk back. By the 
time we left the livery, the rain had nearly come to 
a stop. That was appreciated, too, because we had 
just begun to dry out. The street, however, was 
muddy as before and we had to alter our course 
several times to avoid big puddles.  
“Do you ever miss your folks, Montana?” Daisy 
asked as we approached the middle of town.  
“Yes,” I replied. “I often wonder how they’re 
getting along without me. Also, how my little sister 
is doing.” 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
119 
“I didn’t know you had a sister,” replied Daisy. 
“How old is she?” 
“Mary is two years younger than I am, so that 
would put her at sixteen now. Gee, I hadn’t 
thought about that before. She must be near grown 
up by now. Maybe I’ll make a point of getting 
back up to Bighorn Lake next year. Good idea, 
Daisy.” 
“I’d like to visit with you when you go,” she 
said. 
“If you’re still in the area when I go, I’ll make a 
point of checking in on you. How’s that?” 
“It’s a deal,” she said, reaching to shake my 
hand. “There, now it’s official.” 
We arrived back at the church within the hour 
like I’d promised the Taylors, but they weren’t 
back yet, themselves. About ten minutes later, their 
wagon pulled up. 
“We’re ready to head back now,” said Mr. 
Taylor, bringing the two horses to a stop.  
“Did you have a good time?” Mrs. Taylor asked.  
“Yes ma’am,” Daisy replied. I got to feed Spirit 
and we had a nice walk.  
“Well, you both look a little wet,” Mrs. Taylor 
replied. “You climb up here with me and get under 
this blanket before you catch your death.” 
Turning back to me, Mrs. Taylor nodded. 
“Thank you for watching her Montana. I hope she 
wasn’t a bother. You should get out of those wet 
clothes as soon as you can, too.” 
“She was no bother,” I replied, and, “yes ma’am, 
John E. Richman 
 
120
I’ll get myself dried out as soon as I can. Daisy can 
help me feed Spirit anytime.”  
We said our goodbyes and Mr. Taylor snapped 
the reins, getting the horses to begin following the 
muddy tracks down the street.  
As I watched them pull away, I began to think 
that the Taylors seemed too nice to be involved in 
the burning of the Peterson place -- particularly 
Mrs. Taylor. I watched until they turned the corner 
and hoped I was right. 
 
 
121 
Chapter 14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The next morning, Sheriff Masterson and I met 
early in the hotel lobby. We’d each packed enough 
food and water for a full day on the trail. 
“It would have been easy for me to put this off 
again, Montana,” he said, “but I told you and John 
that I’d get out there this week, and I mean to do 
so. Let’s get going before more business crops up 
in town and keeps me here.” 
Sheriff Masterson’s horse was a tall, golden 
palomino, with a matching mane and tail. Of 
course, I was partial to the butterscotch brown of 
Spirit, but that golden horse was handsome. He 
was about Spirit’s size, but fully grown, where 
Spirit was still a youngster. Sheriff Masterson 
wasn’t what I’d call a big man, and reminded me 
of a toy soldier sitting atop that big, golden horse.  
The day’d dawned cold but dry for a change. The 
late fall sun came up late, and stayed low in the 
hazy sky. Given it was almost December, I 
thought, conditions could have been a lot worse. 
Early as it was, we rode the first hour or two in 
relative silence, letting the horses get to know one 
John E. Richman 
 
122
another as they carried us west.  
After a considerable ride, we stopped at a small 
stream to give them a rest and some water.  
“Sheriff Masterson,” I asked, “What’s our plan? 
Do you want me to ride in with you? I’ve grown 
kind of fond of the little girl and wouldn’t want her 
to think we suspect the Taylors of any wrongdoing, 
at least at this point.” 
“We can’t be wrong, Montana! It was you and 
the Captain that tied Taylor to this, not me! But, 
from what you told me, it does deserve some 
checking into, so I thought we’d just stop by and 
poke around a little. You might be right, though. 
Maybe I’ll ride in alone and you can stay out of 
sight. Might be a little less suspicious at that. You 
know, Montana, you might try your hand as a 
lawman someday. You seem to have a good read 
on people.” 
“I’m obliged,” I said. “But I’m not so sure I was 
cut out for the law. Seems to me like it gets pretty 
rough from time to time. I’ll keep that in mind 
though. For now, I’m just concerned for that little 
girl, particularly if Taylor is tied up in this.” 
When we got about a half-mile from the Taylor 
ranch, the Sheriff told me to stop and wait him out, 
from the edge of the nearby woods. I watched as 
he rode over the hill and disappeared onto the 
Triple T.  
It seemed to take hours, though it was probably 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
123 
more like twenty-five minutes or so. Finally, 
Sheriff Masterson rode out of the brush and into 
sight. As he passed me in silence, he just motioned 
for me to follow. Another mile down the trail, he 
finally spoke.  
“It was an interesting meeting, Montana. We 
talked about the little girl and his plans for her, as 
well as the ranch and the equipment.” 
“He claims he’s trying to contact the little girl’s 
uncle, back east. If he can reach him, and he’s 
partial to the notion, Taylor would send the girl to 
live with him. If not, he says he’s offered to keep 
her.” 
“What was his explanation for all the equip-
ment?” I asked.  
  “This is where it gets interesting. Taylor claims 
that, before the fire, he had reached an agreement 
with Peterson to pump water from the lake, to 
irrigate his land. That would allow him to get back 
into the cattle business. The equipment is water 
pumping gear he plans to use.” 
“Does he have anything in writing to prove he 
had this “deal” with Daisy’s father?” 
“Claims they were just about to have the Land 
Office draw up the paperwork, when the fire 
happened.” 
“Sounds mighty convenient to me,” I said. 
“I like your suspicious mind. Taylor realizes it 
looks bad, so he’s offered to buy back the Peterson 
property when it’s determined who actually owns 
it.” 
John E. Richman 
 
124
“If Daisy is the only survivor, wouldn’t she own 
it?” I asked. 
“Not necessarily,” replied the Sheriff. “It’s 
possible that the court could award it to this 
“uncle” if he really exists. In that case, Taylor 
would have to buy it from him.” 
“What if he’s never found,” I asked. “Wouldn’t 
Daisy then own it?” 
“Probably,” the Sheriff replied. “But if the uncle 
is never found and Taylor adopts the girl, he’d end 
up with it anyway.” 
“Pretty good deal for him. No wonder he offered 
to adopt Daisy,” I said. “Taylor wanted Peterson’s 
land for its water and is going to end up with it, 
whether or not he killed him! There must be 
something we can do to check this out further.” 
“I don’t know, Montana,” Masterson said. “I 
can’t charge a man with murder with no evidence. 
Once we get back to town we can check with the 
Land Office to verify his story and see what they 
know about it. Beyond that, we may just have to 
live with whatever he did or didn’t do.” 
The conversation ended there and left me with a 
growing knot in my stomach. The more I thought 
about it, the more I was convinced that the 
Peterson fire wasn’t just an accident. I decided that 
if Sheriff Masterson would have me, I’d like to 
stick around Dodge long enough to see this settled 
once and for all. 
Sheriff Masterson and I rode the next few hours 
in silence again. I don’t know how uncomfortable 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
125 
he was about the Peterson fire, but I knew I was. 
Arriving back in Dodge in late afternoon, we 
went directly to the Land Office. As we entered 
there was an older lady working at a desk.  
“Hello, Marge,” the Sheriff said. “I was hoping 
you could give me a little information.” 
“Certainly, Sheriff Jim,” she responded. “What 
can I help you with?” 
“It’s about your meeting the other day with 
Walter Taylor. Can you tell me what he was doing 
here?” 
 “Sure, Jim,” she replied. “Walter and the Missus 
stopped by to place an offer for the Peterson 
property. He told me that after Peterson and his 
wife were killed in the fire, he and Mrs. Taylor had 
taken poor Daisy in. He said that they would need 
to acquire the land in order to be able to support 
her. He also seemed to be in a big hurry to finalize 
the paperwork.” 
 “Marjory,” the Sheriff asked, “In a case like this, 
who would actually inherit Peterson’s property?”  
 “That would be up to the judge,” she replied, 
“But with no wills on file, there’s good chance that 
Daisy would inherit anything that was left.”  
 “Taylor told me there was an uncle somewhere 
back east and that he was trying to contact him. 
Did any of that come up?” 
 “He told me the same thing, Jim. He said that if 
this uncle actually existed and if judge awarded 
him the property, he wanted us to notify him of his 
offer to buy the land back. He seems to want that 
John E. Richman 
 
126
land awful bad.” 
 “Thanks, Marge,” the Sheriff said. “I don’t know 
what we have here but please keep our conver-
sation private for now, all right?” 
 “Sure thing, Sheriff. I’ll let you know if anything 
else turns up on this,” she responded. 
 “I would be very appreciative if you would,” 
Masterson replied.  
 He motioned to me to follow him as he left the 
building. 
 Outside, we untied our horses and began walking 
them back toward the jail. 
 “Well, Montana, it seems pretty clear that Taylor 
not only wants that lake, but planned to acquire it 
some time ago.” 
 “How do you know that?” I inquired. 
 “Just stands to reason,” he answered. “If he’d 
only recently succeeded in getting Peterson to 
agree to give him rights to the lake, how do you 
explain the fact that he’d been buying and 
stockpiling pumping equipment for what appears, 
months? I doubt if he’d spend that kind of money 
until he was sure he could use it.” 
 “What do you think that means?” I asked. 
 “Not sure,” the Sheriff responded. “But it cer-
tainly seems that he knew well ahead of time that 
he was going to get those water rights. Maybe even 
before Peterson agreed…if he ever really did.” 
 We walked a little further, finally arriving at the 
jail.  
 “Well, that’s it for today, Montana. Thanks for 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
127 
keeping me company.” 
 “It’s me that has to thank you, Sheriff. Like I 
said, I’m concerned about Daisy and my bad 
feelings about Mr. Taylor haven’t gotten any 
better. I appreciate you’re letting me get involved.” 
 “You’re very welcome,” he responded. “I’m 
going to be pretty busy the next couple of days. 
What say you stick around and help me with this 
case?” 
 “I was hoping you’d ask,” I replied. “What can I 
do?” 
 “I’d like you to go down to the telegraph office 
tomorrow and talk to Mr. White there. Tell him I 
sent you and see if you can get any information 
regarding the telegram that Taylor sent to Daisy’s 
uncle. I’d like to know what it said.” 
 “I’ll take care of it first thing,” I replied.  
 “Also,” he continued, “I’d like you to visit Ted 
Willock down at the mercantile next to the Long 
Branch. Ted might know something about that 
pumping equipment, like when it was ordered and 
so on. In the meantime, you continue to stay at the 
hotel for free. You’re not a real deputy, but you’re 
working for me on this, all right?” 
 “I’m much obliged,” I said. “I’ll get on all that in 
the morning and get back to you with what I find.” 
 “Thanks, Montana. Do me a favor and take both 
horses back to the livery. Then, get a good night’s 
sleep and I’ll see you sometime tomorrow.” 
 I left the Jail thinking about my meetings 
tomorrow with Mr. White and Mr. Willock.  
John E. Richman 
 
128
Thinking back to the Sheriff’s comments about 
being a lawman, I never really hankered to be one, 
but I had to admit that this type of work was more 
interesting than pushing cattle.  
 
 
129 
Chapter 15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 I arrived at the Telegraph Office at nine o’clock 
sharp to find the door closed. I knocked, but no one 
answered. I tried it and found that it was unlocked, 
so I turned the knob and walked in. As I entered, I 
didn’t find anybody in the main office, at least in 
the part I could see. Just as I was about to call out, 
I heard a clank like something hitting a floor. I 
walked to a room in the back and saw a man on his 
hands and knees in a pool of liquid.  
 “Damn stove!” he cursed. “Coffee’s always too 
hot. Now I’ve got to work all day in wet trousers!”  
 As he was getting up with a dripping coffee pot 
in hand, he looked over and saw me. 
 “Oh, sorry,” he said, “I didn’t know anyone else 
was here this early. Don’t mind me, I rather enjoy 
throwing coffee all over myself first thing in the 
morning…it wakes me up. What can I do for you 
this early morning?” 
 “I take it you’re Mr. White?” 
 “Yes I am, and you are...?” 
 “William Ritter sir, but most folks call me 
Montana. I’m sorry about your coffee.” 
John E. Richman 
 
130
 “Don’t give it a thought young man. What brings 
you to the telegraph office?” 
 “I’ve been asked by Sheriff Masterson to ask you 
some questions about a telegram.” 
 “If you’re planning to send one, Mr. Montana, it 
will take me another few minutes to get the switch 
gear up and running.” 
 “No sir, and it’s just Montana. I’m not here to 
send one. Sheriff Masterson needs to know some-
thing about one you’ve already sent -- for Mr. 
Walter Taylor.” 
 By now he’d wiped his trousers off with a towel 
and poured himself a short cup of what remained 
in the pot. 
 “You know, Montana, Sheriff or not, telegrams 
are supposed to be private -- between the sender, 
the recipient, and the telegraph office. What kind 
of office would I be running if I told everybody 
about everybody else’s private business?” 
 “I understand, sir,” I responded. “But this one 
might involve a crime. The Sheriff said that if I 
had any trouble, I should go down and see the 
Judge about it.” 
 Mr. White took another drink from his coffee 
cup and gave me a long look, up and down. 
 “That shouldn’t be necessary. If there’s a crime 
involved, I guess I can discuss it with you. What 
specifically is the Sheriff looking to find out?” 
 “Mister Taylor told the Sheriff that earlier in the 
week he sent a telegram to a relative of the 
Peterson family. He needs to know if he really did 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
131 
and, if he did, what the telegram said.” 
 “He did,” replied Mr. White. “I keep a carbon of 
all outgoing telegrams. Give me just a minute and 
I’ll find it.” With that, he spun his chair around and 
opened a nearby cabinet drawer. After another 
moment of shuffling, he pulled out a small piece of 
paper and looked it over carefully. 
 “The telegram was addressed to a Mr. Albert 
Peterson of Elmira, New York. It notified him that 
Mr. and Mrs. Peterson’s home burned and that 
they’d been killed in the fire. Also, that they left a 
young daughter and that he and his wife had taken 
her in for now. It goes on to request that Mr. 
Peterson contact him for instructions regarding 
where to send her, and money to do so. He also 
indicated that the house and barn were total losses 
and that he would offer to buy it back for the same 
price his father had sold it to them for. He closed 
by asking that Mr. Peterson respond as quickly as 
possible. That’s about it. Is that what Sheriff 
Masterson was looking for?” 
 “He’ll be glad that you were able to help with 
this. I’m sure it’s what he was looking for.” 
 “Well,” replied Mr. White, “Give the Sheriff my 
regards and tell him I’ll let him know if and when 
we get a response.” 
 I thanked Mr. White and left for the mercantile. 
As I was walking past the church I noticed the 
preacher was just leaving. It occurred to me that 
with all the attention lately on the Taylors, Sheriff 
Masterson and I had not checked to see if there 
John E. Richman 
 
132
was a funeral planned for the Petersons.  
 “Mornin’, Reverend,” I said as I walked up 
behind him. He turned in my direction. 
 “Why, good morning son,” he responded with a 
smile. “To whom do I have the pleasure?” 
 “My name is Montana, sir, and I’m one of the 
men that found the Petersons after the fire.” 
 “Terrible thing, that fire. It took two of my new-
est parishioners,” he replied. “The Devil’s work, 
no doubt,” 
 “I suppose so,” I replied. “As you know, sir, we 
were unable to give the Peterson’s a proper burial 
out there. Can you tell me if you are planning a 
funeral in the church?” 
 “We are, Montana,” he replied. “But we’re 
leaving the remains where you buried them. We’re 
planning a small ceremony Saturday morning in 
the church and after, we’ll ride straight to their 
homestead where, I’ll commit them to the earth, 
right where they lay. Were you planning to 
attend?” 
 “I’d like that very much,” I responded.  
 “Well in that case, I’ll see you there,” he said, as 
he turned and continued walking away. “Remem-
ber, the church ceremony will start at nine o’clock 
sharp!” 
 “I’ll be there.” I replied.  
 I was glad I’d run into him. That would mean the 
Taylors and Daisy would be back in town, and that 
would give me a chance to ask some more 
questions, if I could work any out any in my head 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
133 
before Saturday. 
 
 I’d been in the mercantile a few times during the 
week and had found it great place to browse. It was 
full of all kinds of clothing, food, hardware and 
other good stuff. I’d never, however, seen anything 
there as big as that pumping equipment, but Taylor 
had to get it somewhere and this seemed a good 
place to start.  
 As I walked in out of the cold, I took my jacket 
off to shake out the rain that I’d picked up on the 
way over. I gave it one good shake and heard a 
scream from behind me. I quickly to turned around 
to see a girl wiping her eyes with both hands. 
 “Sorry, ma’m. I didn’t see you there. I hope you 
didn’t get too wet!” 
 “I’m not sure I know what ‘too wet’ is…but you 
got me pretty good,” she replied, slowly removing 
her hands from her face.  
 Until now, I’d thought Sarah was the prettiest 
girl I’d ever seen, but suddenly I wasn’t sure. This 
girl had night-black hair and the face of an angel. 
She was wearing a green apron and appeared to 
work there. 
 “I’m…I’m…awful sorry. Can I help?” 
 “I think you’ve helped enough for now,” she said 
and picked up the basket she’d been carrying and 
continued on, right by me. 
 Boy did I mess that up, I thought. The first really 
pretty girl I’d met in Dodge and she already hates 
me! I was doing great. 
John E. Richman 
 
134
 I put my jacket back on and walked over to the 
main counter where another woman was busy 
counting colored ribbons.  
 “Excuse me, ma’m. I’d like to speak to Mr. 
Willock please, if he’s here.” 
 “He’s upstairs. Who should I say is calling?” she 
replied. 
 “My name is Montana, ma’m, and I’m here for 
Sheriff Masterson,” I answered. 
 “You just have yourself a seat Mr. Montana and 
I’ll see if he’s free.” 
 I started to tell her that I was just Montana, but 
having already offended one of their employees, I 
thought better of talking too much. 
 Moments later, Mr. Willock came down the 
stairs. He wore the same green apron I’d seen on 
the girl and was carrying an armload of blankets. 
He laid the blankets down on the counter and ex-
tended his hand. 
 “I’m Ted Willock. I understand you’re looking 
for me?” 
 “Yes sir. My name’s William Ritter but most 
folks call me Montana. Sheriff Masterson asked 
me to speak you about the burning of the Peterson 
place. Is there anywhere we could talk more 
private?” 
 “Certainly, Montana. Follow me to my office.” 
 We walked to the rear of the building, into an 
enclosed office behind the store room. Once we 
were both inside, he closed the door and sat down 
at a large desk.  
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
135 
 “What is it that you and the Sheriff want from 
me?” he asked, taking a cigar from a tin on the 
desk.  
 “Well sir, the Sheriff and I are investigating the 
fire, and while out that way we stopped by the 
Taylor ranch. 
 “The old Triple T?” 
 “Yes sir. While we were there, Mr. Taylor told 
us he’d been planning to set up some sort of 
pumping station out at Peterson’s lake, to get some 
of that water down to his place. We noticed quite a 
lot of pumping equipment on his property. The 
Sheriff is trying to find out where and when he got 
it? He was wondering if he got it from you?” 
 “Well, you might say he got it through me, but 
not from me,” he replied. Around the end of the 
summer he stopped by and inquired about where 
he could get such equipment. I sent for a few 
catalogs for him and I guess he did the rest. It’s all 
from Wilson’s Drilling Equipment up in Wichita. 
Taylor and his man went up there themselves and 
brought back whatever he ended up buying, in 
their own wagons. I only know that because 
Wilson telegraphed me from Wichita asking if 
Taylor had good credit. All I could tell him was 
that he paid his bills here, and I guess that was 
good enough.” 
 “How long ago do you suspect he actually 
bought the equipment?” I asked. 
 “As I say, we first talked maybe late August, but 
I didn’t get the catalogs for three weeks and 
John E. Richman 
 
136
Wilson called me around the first week in October. 
So…I’m guessing he picked up the equipment 
mid-October, just a little over a month ago. Also, 
he may have purchased several lots. I’m not aware 
of exactly what he ended up buying. Does any of 
that help?” 
 “I’d say it helps a lot, sir. Thank you. And I’d 
ask that you keep this conversation to yourself if 
you would.” 
 He finally struck a match and lit his cigar. “Not a 
problem, Montana. I hope you and Sheriff Master-
son are successful in finding out exactly what 
happened out there. The Petersons were good 
people and I just hope the fire was truly an 
accident. Incidentally, how’s the little girl? Daisy 
isn’t it?” 
 “She’s fine, sir. She’s staying out there with the 
Taylors until her uncle, back east, can be contact-
ed.”  
 “Well if there’s anything else I can do to help, 
you let me know, ya’ hear?” 
 “Yes, sir. I’ll do that. I understand from the 
Preacher that Daisy will be in town Saturday for 
the services at the church. Maybe you’ll see her 
while she’s here,” I offered.  
 “I’ll look into that. My daughter Ellen taught her 
Bible class last year. I know Ellen was very 
concerned when we heard about the fire. Maybe 
you met Ellen on your way in? She’s about your 
age and works here in the mercantile. I’m certain 
she’d like to hear how Daisy’s doing direct from 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
137 
you. Do you have a minute?” 
 “Certainly,” I responded. “I believe I may have 
run into her on my way in, if she’s wearing an 
apron like yours.” 
 “That would be her,” he said. “Right handsome 
young lady, isn’t she? You follow me and we’ll 
locate her.” 
 He butted his newly lit cigar into the ashtray on 
his desk and moved around me to re-open the door. 
As we pushed our way past racks of cloth and 
such, I couldn’t help but wonder how my second 
meeting with Ellen would go. The first one sure 
hadn’t gone well. 
 
 
138
Chapter 16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Mr. Willock had it right. Ellen was a handsome 
young woman, but it was hard to compare her to 
Sarah Rogers, because Sarah was always prettied- 
up in fancy dresses. As Mr. Willock and I 
approached her, it was clear that she was in her 
working clothes. Her dark hair was curled up on 
top of her head with some sort of comb holding it 
together. Her long green apron covered some sort 
of brown dress. Pretty, but not fancy. 
 “Ellen, come over here. I’d like you to meet 
someone,” Mr. Willock blurted out in front of the 
whole store.  
 On hearing her father’s request, she straightened 
up from her stooped position and put down the pile 
of clothes she’d been sorting. She was two aisles 
away and, to get to us, had to walk by us to the end 
of the aisles, then work her way over to ours. As 
she did, I got a better look at her. The thing that 
struck me first was her eyes. They were big, and 
she had the longest eyelashes I’m sure I’d ever 
seen. Also, her nose. It wasn’t one of those normal, 
long sloping noses. Instead, it was small and a little 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
139 
turned up at the end. And she looked young. 
Probably younger than she really was, if her father 
was right that we were about the same age. He had 
described her as “handsome.” I would rather say 
she was pretty…very pretty. I hoped she was as 
forgiving as she was pretty. 
 “Ellen,” her father said in a voice that was still 
too loud. “I’d like you to meet Mr. Ritter, though 
he seems to prefer Montana.” 
 “We’ve already met, father,” she stated. “But I 
didn’t catch his name while he was dousing me 
with water.” 
 Confused by her comment, Mr. Willock contin-
ued, “Montana is a deputy, sent here on business 
by Sheriff Masterson. During our conversation, he 
mentioned that he’s had recent contact with Daisy 
Peterson, and I thought you’d like to talk to him 
about her while he was here.” 
 “I’m not officially a deputy, ma’am. I’m just 
helping out Sheriff Masterson while he’s busy 
working on other things.” 
 She extended her hand to shake, like a man.  
 “It’s very nice to finally meet you, Mr. Ritter, 
and please call me Ellen. I was just kidding about 
the dousing. How is it that you know Daisy 
Peterson?” 
 “Why don’t you two go for a walk and talk, so 
your mother and I get back to the business of 
running the store,” her father suggested.  
 “We better do our walking inside if that water on 
John E. Richman 
 
140
your shirt earlier came from the sky,” Ellen said.  
 She reached for my hand and escorted me out of 
the clothing aisles and out the front door to two 
rocking chairs that were on the store’s covered 
boardwalk.  
 “I don’t think there’s much sense in our trying to 
walk in this weather,” she said. “We’d do better 
right here, where we’re outside, but still dry. I 
wouldn’t want to get wet all over again…”
 “I’m sorry about that, and please call me 
Montana,” I repeated. “When people say Mr. 
Ritter, I think they’re talking about my father.” 
 “Oh, I’m only kidding, Montana. How is it again 
that you know Daisy?” she repeated. 
 “I was in the group that first came on the fire. 
We were riding to Dodge from up north last week 
when we saw smoke up ahead of us. We followed 
the smoke to the Peterson place where we found 
their house and barn burned to the ground.” 
 “I suppose you found the Peterson’s bodies?” 
she asked. 
 “Unfortunately, yes. We found them together in 
the ashes of the barn.” 
 “Where was Daisy?”  
 “We didn’t see her at first. One of my friends is 
an Indian tracker and he was the first to find her. 
She’d run into the woods, probably to get out of 
the rain. Whitey heard her crying and found her 
hiding. She was wet and cold. Other than that, she 
was in pretty good shape. We got her warmed up 
and she told us about how the fire had started at 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
141 
night and how her mother got her up and out of the 
house. We assume that her mother then went to 
help her father try to save the barn. We believe 
they were trapped inside when a big beam fell and 
pinned them down. It was a terrible sight.” 
 “I feel so badly for her,” Ellen said. “I knew Mr. 
and Mrs. Peterson from church and taught Daisy’s 
Bible class. She’s such a bright girl. I hope this 
experience hasn’t permanently injured her.” 
 “I’ve been able to spend some time with her 
since then, and she seems like she’s adjusting as 
well as she could. She took a liking to my horse 
Spirit, and her folks let me take her down to the 
livery to spend some time with him while they ran 
errands in town a few days ago. I wish I’d known 
that you two were close. I would have brought her 
by.” 
 “That’s alright. You couldn’t have known. I 
heard they’re going to have a service in the church 
soon. I’m sure the Taylors will bring her in for it. 
I’ll see her then. I’m kind of surprised, though, that 
the Taylors were so quick to take her in,” she 
added. 
 “How do you mean?” I inquired. “They seem 
like nice folks to me, at least in brief time I’ve 
known them.” 
 “I don’t want to speak badly of anyone, and I 
think Mrs. Taylor is a good person, but Mr. Taylor 
used to have quite a reputation around town. We 
were all surprised when they married. On Sundays, 
we usually only see Mrs. Taylor in church. Mr. 
John E. Richman 
 
142
Taylor seems to stay away as much as he can. 
Maybe I’m wrong about him, but I just never liked 
that man much.” 
 “Well, I’d trust your judgment more than my 
own on the subject,” I said. “You certainly know a 
lot more about him than I do. I do know that 
they’re trying to contact Mr. Peterson’s brother, 
back east. I sure hope they do, so Daisy can get 
back with family as soon as possible. I also heard 
that the service for her folks is Saturday morning. 
Right after, the preacher’s going out to their place 
to say words over the graves. I plan to go to both 
services. Maybe I’ll see you there?” 
 “We’ll be there,” Ellen responded. “Father has 
already posted a sign in the door that the 
mercantile will be closed Saturday morning.” 
 Ellen stood up from the rocker and again held 
her hand out to me. “It’s been a pleasure making 
your acquaintance, Montana. Thank you for letting 
me know about Daisy and I hope to see you at 
church, Saturday.” 
 “Me too, Ellen,” I said. “Let’s hope the rain lets 
up by then. I wouldn’t want you to get wet 
again…” 
 Ellen laughed and went back through the door, 
into the store. I could hardly wait for Saturday, 
when I could see her again.  
 As I left the porch and started back toward the 
jail, I couldn’t help but think about what she’d said 
about Mr. Taylor. She didn’t trust him. That seem-
ed to fit with some of the other information I was 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
143 
finding out about him. I took some comfort in the 
fact that she thought well of Mrs. Taylor, though, 
and that put Daisy in good hands…for now. 
 It was still raining, so by the time I got to the jail, 
I was all wet again. This time it wasn’t just my 
jacket. The rain had been coming down harder and 
I was wet to the skin.  
 I walked in to find a deputy seated behind the 
desk, cleaning a rifle. He told me that Sheriff 
Masterson was out of town on a call with Marshal 
Tilghman and that they weren’t expected back for 
a few more hours. I figured it was time to go back 
to the hotel and get out of my wet clothes when the 
door behind me opened and Mr. White, from the 
telegraph office, walked in. 
 “Montana,” he said, somewhat out of breath. 
“I’m glad I caught you. I just heard from back east 
and wanted you or Sheriff Masterson to know right 
away.” 
 “I just found out the Sheriff’s not in right now, 
but if you tell me, I’ll make sure he gets the 
message as soon as he gets back.” 
 “Peterson’s brother won’t be coming for the girl 
-- he’s dead! Seems he caught the fever last year 
and didn’t make it through the winter. According 
to the telegram, he never married and didn’t leave 
any other family that they knew of. I knew you’d 
want to know before I told Walt Taylor.” 
 “I appreciate you’re coming down in this 
weather to let us know, Mr. White. I’m sorry to 
hear the news though,” I replied. “That means 
John E. Richman 
 
144
Daisy will probably have to stay with the Taylors. I 
was hoping that wasn’t going to be the case. I 
thank you again for letting us know, and I’ll make 
sure to tell Sheriff Masterson as soon as he gets 
back.” 
 “Anytime I can help, just let me know,” he 
responded, and walked back out the jailhouse door. 
 Now I was not only wet, but my stomach hurt, 
too, when I thought of Mr. Taylor getting to keep 
both Daisy and her land. I told the deputy that I’d 
be back later and went back out in the rain toward 
the warmth of my hotel room. 
 
 
145 
Chapter 17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Saturday morning dawned bright and dry for a 
change. Even though it had now been more than a 
week since the fire, I knew the Peterson’s service 
would be sad. Maybe, I thought, the improved 
weather would make it a little more tolerable for 
those of us attending. 
 Sheriff Masterson had gotten back to town 
Thursday night, as expected. I returned to the jail 
after supper and informed him of the news I’d 
received from Mr. White earlier that afternoon. He 
was as concerned as I was. He suggested we let 
things lie for a few days and get the funeral behind 
us before we got back into our investigation. 
Neither of us were comfortable with the situation 
but neither did we know what the next step would 
be, or even if there was one. 
 I was beginning to think that I wouldn’t make a 
very good lawman after all. I found the 
investigation work interesting, but was disappoint-
ed that it didn’t seem to have gotten us anywhere. 
Like Sheriff Masterson told me, it might just be 
that Taylor did set the fire, and it might just be that 
John E. Richman 
 
146
he’d get away with it. Didn’t seem right to me, but 
then again, I was beginning to learn that no matter 
how much you want them to, things don’t always 
turn out right. 
 Just the same, I was looking forward to seeing 
both Daisy and Ellen again, so I put on my cleanest 
clothes and went over to the church early. Turns 
out, I didn’t have to because nobody other than 
Reverend Bragan was there until around quarter-
to-nine. Once they did start arriving, however, they 
filled up the little church pretty quick. By nine, 
there were still families coming in. 
 Mr. and Mrs. Taylor and Daisy arrived in about 
the middle of the group. Daisy saw me right off 
and came over. 
 “It’s nice to see you again, Montana,” she 
started. “I looked outside for Spirit but he wasn’t 
there. I was afraid you might not come.” 
 “Don’t worry about Spirit, Daisy. He doesn’t 
like being tied up for too long. He’s still living the 
rich life down at the livery. And it’s good to see 
you, too. Incidentally, I met a friend of yours the 
other day.” 
 “Who?” she inquired. 
 “Ellen Willock,” I answered. “I was doing some 
shopping over at the mercantile and ran into her. 
She said she teaches your Bible class and likes you 
very much.” 
 “I like her, too. Sometimes I think of her as my 
big sister. I wonder if she’s coming today. I 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
147 
haven’t seen her since all this happened.” 
 Just as Daisy spoke, in walked Mr. and Mrs. 
Willock, and Ellen.  
 “She told me she was planning to come and, 
there she is…” I said, pointing her out to Daisy, 
who hadn’t yet seen them.  
 “Ellen!” Daisy shouted, and immediately left me 
for her old friend. As they met across the church 
foyer, they embraced one another in a long hug. As 
they parted, I saw Daisy say something to her and 
then they both headed back my way.  
 While they made their way back toward me 
through the growing crowd, I saw that Ellen was 
no longer dressed in her work clothes. Instead, she 
was dressed in her church goin’ clothes -- a long 
dark dress with her hair covered up by a black 
scarf. I wasn’t sure what a “handsome” woman 
was, but maybe her father had been right the other 
day. This was more than just pretty.  
 Reverend Bragan had climbed up on the alter 
and it was clear that he was about to call the 
meeting to order. No sooner had Daisy and Ellen 
made it back over to me, than he did. So as quickly 
as they had come over, they both had to turn 
around and go back to their people -- Ellen with 
her folks, and Daisy with the Taylors. I really 
hoped we would have a chance to get together after 
the service. 
 Reverend Bragan began in a voice that shook the 
church and immediately silenced the congrega-
tion… 
John E. Richman 
 
148
“Blessed are the poor in spirit, for 
theirs is the kingdom of heaven.  
Blessed are those who mourn, for they 
will be comforted.  
Blessed are the meek, for they will 
inherit the earth.  
Blessed are those who hunger and 
thirst for righteousness, for they will 
be filled.  
Blessed are the merciful, for they will 
be shown mercy.  
And Blessed are the pure in heart, for 
they will see God. 
We gather today to pray for the souls 
of our dearly departed friends, 
Thomas and Sadie Peterson, who the 
Lord took from us just a week ago, and 
for the care and welfare of their 
daughter, Daisy.” 
 
 The service, that began shortly after nine, ended 
around ten. After the final prayer, Reverend 
Bragan announced that there would be an addition-
al service out at the Peterson place later in the day.  
 “I expect to conduct the interment service at one 
o’clock. Those of you who can attend, are invited. 
In either case, this morning’s service will be 
immediately followed by a short reception, next 
door in the parsonage. Mrs. Bragan will be serving 
coffee and cake. You are all invited to attend and 
share your memories of Mr. and Mrs. Peterson 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
149 
with one and all.” 
 After that, we all filed out to the church foyer. 
I’d made a point of waiting until the Willocks 
passed by, to join the flow.  
 “Good morning, Montana,” said Mr. Willock. 
“enlightening service, wasn’t it?” 
 “Yes sir,” I answered as I found myself right 
next to Ellen.  
 “Are you able to join us in the parsonage?” he 
continued. 
 “Yes, sir,” I repeated. “I also plan on attending 
the second service out at the Peterson place.” 
  “We wanted to attend as well, but we promised 
our customers we’d reopen the mercantile at 
noon.” Mr. Willock replied. 
 “Father,” Ellen interrupted. “I would very much 
like to attend the later service with Daisy if you 
and mother could get along without me for the 
afternoon.” 
 “Handling the store isn’t a problem Ellen, but 
I’m sure your mother and I wouldn’t be at all 
comfortable with you making that trip alone. I’d 
prefer that you stay with us.” 
 “I could take her with me,” I blurted out, no 
doubt startling everyone within ear-shot. “I mean if 
that would be alright with Mrs. Willock and 
yourself.” 
 Mr. Willock glanced at his wife, and she at 
Ellen. It was clear from Ellen’s expression that she 
was fine with the idea, but we would need her 
mother’s agreement to make it happen. 
John E. Richman 
 
150
 “Ellen,” said Mrs. Willock, now looking at her 
daughter, “Mr. Ritter has offered to accompany 
you to the Peterson’s. Should you wish to join him, 
I would only ask that he drive our wagon.” 
 “I would be happy to be accompanied by Mr. 
Ritter, if he was willing to drive our wagon,” she 
responded, now looking at me. I guessed it was my 
turn again. 
 “I’m fine with that,” I said, “but if we’re going to 
make a one o’clock service way out there, we 
should think about leaving pretty soon, wouldn’t 
you think, Mr. Willock?” 
 “Can I go, too?” said the little voice from 
somewhere below us. I looked down to see that 
Daisy had joined us and was now part of the 
conversation.  
 “Have you asked Mrs. Taylor?” Ellen inquired. 
 “Not yet, but I would if you would agree to take 
me.” 
 At this point, Mr. Willock rolled his eyes and 
said, “Ellen, that’s up to you and Montana. Just 
make sure you get permission from the Taylors 
before you commit anything to the child.” 
 He continued, “Montana, why don’t you come 
by the mercantile’s back door in about thirty 
minutes and I’ll see that the wagon is ready to go.” 
 With that, the Willocks left for a quick visit to 
the reception next door. Ellen suggested we take 
Daisy’s request to the Taylors, so the three of us 
headed in their direction. 
 “Good afternoon,” Ellen said to Mr. and Mrs. 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
151 
Taylor who were just heading out the church door. 
“I’m planning to attend the second service out at 
the Peterson’s place, accompanied by my friend 
Mr. Ritter. Daisy has asked if she could ride out 
with us and while I would enjoy her company, the 
decision is up to you. Is that something you might 
consider?” 
 Mrs. Taylor turned and spoke to Mr. Taylor, “I 
don’t have any problem with it if Daisy would like 
to, do you?” 
 “Can I assume you would be taking a wagon?” 
asked Mr. Taylor. 
 “Yes sir,” I responded. “We’d be going in the 
Willock’s wagon.” 
 “Fine with me then. Just make sure you get her 
there by one. This service is as much for her as it is 
for anybody.” 
 “Montana,” Ellen said, “Now that that’s all 
settled, Daisy and I need to get ready. How about if 
we meet you behind the store when the wagon’s 
ready?” 
 “Fine, I’ll look for you there.” 
 So we had a plan. The three of us would meet up 
behind the mercantile within the hour, to start our 
ride out to the Peterson’s. I hadn’t been looking 
forward to these services, but was pleased that 
things turned out the way they had, and pleased as 
well for the chance to spend some time with these 
two ladies who, so recently, had entered my life. 
 
 
152
Chapter 18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 When I left the church I headed directly for 
Willock’s mercantile. The front doors were still 
closed and locked, so I guessed I was the first one 
back. I walked around to the rear of the building. 
Behind the mercantile I found a wagon backed up 
to the loading dock. I assumed this was the wagon 
Mr. Willock wanted me to drive, though clearly the 
horses were somewhere else.  
 I continued to poke around for a few more 
minutes when Mr. Willock came into view, 
coming up the street from the livery with two 
horses in tow.  
 “Montana, how about giving me a hand pulling 
the rig together?” he said. “You’ll find the 
harnesses and collars over there in that shed. Be 
careful with this one,” he pointed to the horse on 
the left. “He’s been a little spooky for the past few 
weeks. Don’t know why. Keep a tight rein on him 
until he gets to know you. And, Montana, this is an 
old rig so I’m trusting you to take it easy and keep 
the wheels on it. That trail out to the Peterson’s can 
be a rough one.” 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
153 
 “I understand Mr. Willock. I’ll take it easy. If we 
leave soon, we’ll be in no hurry.” 
 “Were you planning to take a gun?” he asked. 
 “Wasn’t, sir, but I will if you think it best.” 
 “I’ll get you one. I’d feel better about your trip if 
you were armed. I’m sure you won’t need it but 
that’s quite a ride and you can never tell around 
Dodge, who or what you’ll run into. You know 
how to handle a hand gun, don’t you son?” 
 “Yes sir.” 
 “You get the rig ready and I’ll be back in ten or 
so minutes.” 
 Fifteen minutes later the wagon was ready and 
both Mr. and Mrs. Willock came out the dock 
door. Mr. Willock handed me a small burlap bag. 
 “You take this and remember it’s loaded. Only 
use it if you have to,” he said, as I peeked in the 
bag to see a holster with a Colt in it and five or six 
extra rounds looped in the belt. 
 “You can hide it in the box under the seat.” 
 Just as I did, both Ellen and Daisy came out the 
same dock door. Both dressed the same, except for 
the winter coats they were now wearing. 
 “Mrs. Willock handed Ellen a blanket. “You 
keep this around you or you’ll catch your death. 
Keep Daisy covered up, too. Mr. Ritter’s just going 
to have to fend for himself, unless you want one 
too?” 
 “No thanks, ma’am,” I replied. “I’ll be fine. 
Remember, I’m from Montana and this weather 
still feels like summer to me.” 
John E. Richman 
 
154
 Daisy climbed into the back of the wagon and sat 
herself right behind the seat. Ellen looked at her 
and appeared to consider doing the same but, 
instead and still holding the blanket in one hand, 
climbed up on the right side of the bench, right 
next to me. I then climbed aboard and snapped the 
reins to move the horses out.  
 “We’ll be looking for you around dinner time,” 
her mother said as we followed the wagon tracks 
down the back of the buildings. 
The girls waved goodbye and we were on our way. 
 “Your father told me to keep an eye on this horse 
on the right,” I said, to break the quiet.  
 “All I know about it is that we went on a picnic a 
few Sundays ago and Elmer jumped around so 
much he almost threw us off the wagon.” 
 “Elmer?” I asked. “The horse’s name is Elmer? 
What kind of a name is that for a horse?” 
 “A little bit better than Zeke. That’s the name of 
the other one. They’re brothers and when we 
bought them, father named them after the brothers 
he bought them from. It probably wasn’t very 
imaginative, but it was easy and they’ve been Zeke 
and Elmer ever since.” 
 “Daisy, how are you doing back there? There’s 
room for you up here on the bench if you want to 
join us?” I said. 
 With that, she was up and already throwing a leg 
over the bench. “Good idea, Montana. I’m afraid if 
I don’t come up, I won’t hear what’s going on!” 
 Ellen responded, “Well, you might be disap-
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
155 
pointed with what’s going on, but I do want to talk 
to you. We haven’t really had much time to talk 
since the fire. You know, we’re all just sick over it. 
Your folks were such nice people. How have you 
been getting on at the Taylor’s?” 
 “OK, I guess,” Daisy replied. “I’m not sleeping 
much because every time to start to, I have bad 
dreams about that night and the fire.” 
 “I’m sure they’ll end soon,” Ellen replied. “How 
are you getting along with Mrs. Taylor?” 
 “She’s nice and tries to help, but no matter what 
she does, the dreams keep coming back.” 
 “Are you having any fun at their place?” I asked. 
“I mean, during the days?” 
 “Well, I’d like to get out more but there’s no one 
to play with. Mrs. Taylor stays in a lot and we’ve 
been busy canning and cooking. Mr. Taylor goes 
away during the day and doesn’t come home until 
dinnertime, so I have to stay in with Mrs. Taylor. I 
think she wishes she had her own little girl again, 
and hopes maybe I’ll stay.” 
 As Daisy spoke, it occurred to me that she didn’t 
yet know that her uncle was dead and that she 
wouldn’t be going back east. As much as I wanted 
to let her know what I knew, it wasn’t my job to 
tell her. I supposed Ellen didn’t know either, so I 
decided to keep quiet until the Taylors told her. 
 “That’s a pretty nice ranch they have, though,” I 
said. “When you’re feeling better, there’s probably 
a lot to do around there.” 
 “Mrs. Taylor told me I might be able to get a 
John E. Richman 
 
156
pony when they’re able to get back into the cattle 
business.” 
 “That would be great,” I responded. “Spirit keeps 
me so busy sometimes that I don’t have much time 
for anything else.” 
 “Who’s Spirit?” inquired Ellen. 
 Before I could answer, Daisy answered for me. 
“SPIRIT IS THE MOST BEAUTIFUL AND 
FASTEST HORSE IN THE WEST!” she said. 
 “Seems like she’s exaggerating a little…but 
she’s not. It’s true,” I added. “Spirit is the most 
beautiful and fastest horse in the west. At least in 
the parts of the west we’ve been to.” 
 Ellen responded, “I’d love to see this Spirit some 
time. Where is he?” 
 “He’s back at the Dodge livery, getting fat on 
oats while I’m out here pushing Zeke and Elmer!” 
I laughed. 
 “I supposed it isn’t much of a contest,” Ellen 
answered. “Spirit wouldn’t have to be much of a 
horse to beat these two lazy louts!” 
 Ellen then took Daisy’s hand and got serious 
again. “Daisy, it’s going to be a long hard journey 
for you to get over the fire. You’ll never forget 
your folks and you shouldn’t, but I know they 
would want you to be happy again and think of 
them in heaven, watching over you all the time. 
Remember our Bible stories about heaven. Your 
mother and father are there now, with God. I know 
you wish they were here with you, but you need to 
get on with your life. You need to be thinking 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
157 
about what kind of woman you’ll grow up to be.” 
 Daisy was quiet for a moment and then said, “I 
guess, but I just wish Mr. Taylor liked me more.” 
 “What makes you think he doesn’t like you?” I 
asked. 
 “Well, the last time he and Father were together, 
they got in a terrible argument and yelled at one 
another. I think he was mad at father and now he’s 
mad at me,” she said. 
 “That’s silly,” replied Ellen. “They were prob-
ably just joking. I’m sure Mr. Taylor likes you a 
lot.” 
 “I don’t think they were joking,” Daisy 
answered. “I heard father tell Mr. Taylor that he 
wasn’t going to sell our lake or it’s water to him, 
and I think that made him mad because he yelled 
something I didn’t hear and left without saying 
goodbye to mother or me.” 
 “You heard them talking about lake water?” I 
asked. 
 “Yes. He’d visited us a few times and was 
usually talking to father where we couldn’t hear. 
But, when he left, I heard father tell mother that it 
was about our water. I think Mr. Taylor offered a 
lot of money to buy the lake back, but mother 
wanted to keep it for us. I think that’s why he got 
mad and went away. So I think he’s still mad at 
me, too.” 
 “I’m sure you’re mistaken,” Ellen said, comfort-
ing Daisy with her arm around her shoulder. “They 
may have had a disagreement, but it had nothing to 
John E. Richman 
 
158
do with you and the Taylors were quick to take you 
in when you had no where else to go. That says 
something, doesn’t it?” 
 “I guess so,” replied Daisy. “I guess I hadn’t 
thought about that.” 
 “Well, don’t think about it any more,” added 
Ellen. Whatever happens, you have a nice place to 
stay with people who love you. Think about that.” 
 “I’ll try,” Daisy sighed. “Maybe I’ll feel better 
after today’s services.” 
 “You better!” I said, “Or I’ll tell Spirit you’re too 
sad to like him.” 
 “Oh, don’t do that!” she responded. “I want 
Spirit to like me enough to take me on a really fast 
ride someday.” 
 “All right then, you need to cheer up for him to 
do that,” I answered. “Spirit is a happy horse and 
doesn’t want any sad or grumpy people around 
him.”  
 “I promise,” she answered. “You just need to 
bring him around so I can get my ride.” 
 “You have a deal,” I said.  
 Neither Ellen nor Daisy could have known how 
Daisy’s comments about her father and Mr. Taylor 
hit me. I could barely keep from telling them about 
it. Just two days ago, Walter Taylor told the Sheriff 
that Mr. Peterson had agreed to allow him to pump 
water from his lake. Now, due to the unexplained 
fire and the deaths of the Petersons, he was pretty 
free to do so. The Sheriff had said to me that he 
lacked “motive” in tying Taylor to the fire. It 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
159 
looked like he had it now, but I was troubled that 
all the evidence was wrapped up in little Daisy, 
who was living at the Taylors. If Mr. Taylor knew 
that she knew about the water deal, she might be in 
danger, too. It was clear that as soon as we got 
back to town, I’d go straight to the Sheriff, and see 
what he thought should be done. 
 
 An hour or so later, we pulled in to the Peterson 
homestead. I could see Daisy’s eyes fill with tears 
as she looked the site over. This had been her 
home and now it was gone. It had been over a 
week since the fire and what remained, didn’t at all 
resemble the house or barn that once stood here. 
All that was left were two piles of jagged charcoal 
and an empty corral.  
 As we pulled in, we could see that we weren’t 
the first there. We beat the preacher and his wife, 
but not the Taylors. Their wagon was next to the 
corral and Mrs. Taylor was standing over the two 
rough graves. She had just laid small bunches of 
fresh flowers on both of them.  
 In the rear of their wagon, there were two, newly 
made, wooden crosses, clearly intended for the 
graves as well. With all her care, it was obvious 
that Mrs. Taylor knew nothing about whatever evil 
her husband had been up to. I wondered how she’d 
react when she found out. 
 After pulling our team to a stop, the girls and I 
all got out together. Mrs. Taylor was glad to see 
Daisy and came right over. 
John E. Richman 
 
160
 “How was the ride?” she asked. 
 Ellen replied, “A little cold but we had a nice 
chance to talk and I think it might have helped 
Daisy a little.” 
 “Good,” Mrs. Taylor replied. “She hasn’t been 
sleeping well. I guess we’re a little early. I have 
some food from the reception in a basket in the 
wagon if you are at all hungry. Feel free to take 
some.” 
 “Not right now, thanks,” Ellen replied. 
 Looking over the ashes from the fires, Ellen 
commented, “How horrible. To think that Daisy 
was almost lost, too. I don’t think I could eat here.” 
 “I understand,” replied Mrs. Taylor. “I feel the 
same way. What a terrible way to go. We’re so 
lucky that Montana and those other men were 
riding by to save her from Lord knows what might 
have happened out in those cold, wet, woods.” 
 While the ladies talked, I quietly asked Daisy 
which way their lake was from the home site. She 
pointed to a small trail that went into the woods 
from behind where the house used to stand. 
 “It’s not far…just a short walk up that path,” she 
said. “Do you want to go see it?” 
 “Not right now, Daisy, but if I get a chance I 
might stop back tomorrow morning and look 
around. I think we might better get ready for the 
service now.” 
 I wondered if I’d have a chance to check it out 
while here, but it wasn’t likely with the wagon, 
Daisy, and Ellen. I decided would come back 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
161 
tomorrow and do some more checking. It would be 
much easier and safer if I was alone. 
 A few minutes later, two more wagons arrived. 
Reverend Bragan and his wife were in one, and 
several other friends from the church were in the 
other. 
 Mr. Taylor finally showed up from wherever 
he’d been, and he and the Preacher took the two 
crosses out of his wagon. I helped carry them over 
the graves and used Mr. Taylor’s sledge to pound 
them in after he positioned them at the heads of the 
small graves. 
 Reverend Bragan then took his position between 
the crosses, opened his Bible and bowed his head. 
“Let us pray.” 
 
“Jesus said, I am the resurrection, 
and I am the life; he who believes in 
me, though he die, yet shall he live, 
and whoever lives and believes in me 
shall never die.  
In my Fathers house are many 
rooms; And I will come again and will 
take you to myself that where I am, you 
may be also.” 
 
 After the prayer, Reverend Bragan spoke briefly 
again about how much the church and community 
would miss the Petersons and how it would work 
to make sure Daisy was properly cared for.  
John E. Richman 
 
162
 At the end, he bent and picked up a handful of 
dirt from each grave and tossed it back on them.  
 I’m not sure who’s idea it was to have a proper 
burial ceremony out here, but I was glad we did. I 
think it helped Daisy to know that her folks were 
now in heaven. 
 After the ceremony was over, Mrs. Taylor 
invited everyone over to their wagon for some of 
the reception food. I took the opportunity to do 
something I knew had to be done, and there just 
didn’t seem like a good time to do it.  
 I called Daisy over to tell her about the news I’d 
received from Mr. White. 
 “Daisy, I know this has been hard for you and I 
don’t want to make it any harder, but I have some 
more bad news to share with you. I found out from 
Mr. White in the telegraph office that your uncle 
got the fever last year and died. So, it doesn’t look 
like you’ll be going back east. I’m sorry, but I 
wanted you to know. I’d also ask that you not tell 
anyone. I’m not sure Mr. White has reported this 
back to Mr. Taylor yet, and we should let that 
happen. In the meantime, I don’t want you to 
worry about the future. However this turns out for 
you, I’ll make sure you’re taken care of. Okay?” 
 “I won’t tell anyone, Montana. Thanks for telling 
me. I never knew him anyway, but I’m sorry he 
died.” 
 “So am I, Daisy, but it will all work out in the 
end,” I said. “For now, just trust me.” 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
163 
 Shortly after our conversation, Daisy left for the 
Triple T with the Taylors. That left Ellen and me 
alone for the trip back to town. At first we just 
talked about the ceremony and how it seemed to 
help Daisy. But a little later, Ellen asked where I 
thought Mr. Taylor had been when we got there. 
 “I don’t know. Probably checking out where he 
was going to run his water pipes,” I said. 
 “What makes you think he’s going to run water 
pipes?” asked a surprised Ellen. 
 “He told the Sheriff that he and Mr. Peterson had 
reached a deal, giving him rights to the lake water. 
He already has a considerable amount of equip-
ment for pumping it,” I replied. 
 “Daisy said they argued about it and that her 
father didn’t want him to take any of it. How does 
that stack up with he told the Sheriff?” 
 “It doesn’t,” I replied. “And I’m going to make 
sure the Sheriff knows about it as soon as we get 
back to Dodge.” 
 I’m not sure that Ellen fully appreciated how 
important the information Daisy shared with us 
was, but I didn’t want Ellen to too involved in this 
yet, so I changed the subject.  
 “It’s starting to get cold again,” I said. “Probably 
going to freeze tonight, given how clear the air is.” 
 Ellen reached back and grabbed the blanket that 
Daisy’d left behind the bench. She wrapped it 
around her. 
 “Montana, what are your plans now that the 
services are over? Are you planning to stay in 
John E. Richman 
 
164
Dodge for a while or go on about your cattle drive 
business?” 
 “I hadn’t thought much about it,” I responded. “I 
do want to hook up with one of the cattle drives 
and head south, but for now, Sheriff Masterson 
seems to need my help so I’ll probably stick 
around another week or so. I also promised Daisy a 
ride on Spirit and I can’t leave town without giving 
it to her, or she’d never forgive me.” 
 “I think Daisy has a crush on you,” she said. 
“Well, either you or your horse. I’m not sure 
which.” 
 “She’s a tough girl, but I do worry about her,” I 
replied. 
 “In the meantime,” Ellen continued, “if you find 
yourself getting lonely, feel free to stop over to the 
mercantile. Father keeps it nice and warm and if 
you came by late in the day, you might be able to 
help unload stock and maybe wrangle a dinner 
invitation from mother. You know, she’s a great 
cook. I’d also like to see this horse of yours for 
myself at some point. I’d like to see for what all 
the excitement’s about.” 
 “I might just do that,” I replied. “Spirit is a 
special horse and I’ll make sure to bring him by 
when it’s not too wet out.” 
 “Why, isn’t he waterproof?” she asked, with a 
note of sarcasm in her voice. “I thought all horses 
were waterproof!” 
 “Oh, he’s waterproof,” I said. “but the way I 
figure it, Spirit is only half horse. His other half is 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
165 
‘people’. He can put up with any kind of weather, 
but he does like his comforts. I guess that’s his 
people half.”  
 We laughed and joked the rest of the way back. I 
was really getting to like Ellen and the prospect of 
sticking around Dodge for another week or so was 
becoming evermore appealing to me.  
 On returning to town, I dropped Ellen and the 
wagon off at the mercantile, and headed straight up 
the street to the jail. I couldn’t wait to tell Sheriff 
Masterson what I’d found out from Daisy. But, I 
was to be disappointed again. The deputy told me 
Sheriff Masterson had headed out of town again 
with Marshal Tilghman and they were expected to 
be gone for a few days. 
 Unable to share my new information on Taylor’s 
“water deal,” I went back to the hotel and went to 
bed. As long as I had to wait a few more days to 
get with the Sheriff, I decided I’d run Spirit back 
out to the Peterson place in the morning, and take a 
better look around. Something funny was going on 
out there and I meant to find out what it was. 
 
 
166
Chapter 19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 I didn’t sleep well that night and rolled around 
in bed for most of it. I couldn’t stop thinking about 
the possibility that the Peterson fire was set. As the 
Sunday morning sun struggled to rise out of the 
mist, I could see that the nice weather of yesterday 
had blown out and been replaced by a cold, wet 
mist. I don’t like that kind of weather and, like I 
told Ellen, neither did Spirit. But, we had work to 
do, so I got up, washed the sleep out of my eyes, 
and put a leather vest on under my jacket to help 
keep me dry.  
 Leaving the hotel, I remembered Mr. Willock’s 
caution of yesterday and reached for my 
Winchester. Also recalling my confrontation with 
McVey, I took a minute to open the chamber and 
check the magazine to see how many shells I had 
in it. Good thing, too, as I was down to three 
bullets. Fortunately, I had a box of shells in my 
drawer and filled the magazine with thirteen more, 
leaving the chamber empty for riding. 
 After a quick breakfast at the saloon across the 
street, I walked down to the livery to wake my old 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
167 
friend. As I entered the livery, I could see that I 
didn’t have to. Spirit must have sensed I was 
coming because he was already fully awake and 
munching on the open bale of hay in his stall. Of 
course, he didn’t know yet that the weather had 
turned foul, or I fear he wouldn’t have been that 
happy to see me. 
 It was bright enough outside to ride now, so I 
saddled him up and we left Dodge down the west 
trail, back toward the Triple T and the Peterson 
place.  
 It hadn’t occurred to me that it was Sunday 
morning until we started seeing wagons coming at 
us, heading for church. I wasn’t sure exactly what I 
was looking for out at the Peterson’s, but thought it 
best not to have to explain it to the Taylors, should 
they pass me on the way in. I decided to leave the 
main trail and move a ways north, then continue to 
ride along side it, but just out of sight from it. I 
didn’t know if the Taylors would be attending 
church today, but knew if they were, they’d 
probably have Daisy with them and she’d be quick 
to spot me and Spirit.  
 Spirit and I were far enough off the main road, 
that there wasn’t much of a trail to follow and the 
going was a little more difficult, but we were in no 
particular hurry, so we just trotted along, letting 
Spirit choose the path. 
 After about an hour I figured we’d passed by the 
Triple T. Shortly thereafter, we worked our way 
back to the main trail that would take us to the 
John E. Richman 
 
168
Peterson place. Another forty minutes got us there 
-- right back to where I’d been yesterday. The 
place looked even gloomier in the rain. 
 We stopped for a minute at the grave sites. The 
flowers Mrs. Taylor had laid there yesterday, were 
still fresh. 
 As Spirit and I stood there, next to the graves, I 
noticed something a little odd on the ground 
around us. The morning rain had softened all the 
horse and wagon tracks from yesterday’s visit, 
while our new tracks on the wet ground were fresh 
and sharp. There were, however, other new tracks 
that were nearly as fresh as ours! It looked to me 
like someone else might be in the area.  
 I remembered that Daisy said the lake was just 
north of the house, so I quietly dismounted and 
walked Spirit away from the gravesite and into the 
woods, in that direction. Again, I kept off the main 
path so as not be seen.  
 Thirty or forty yards up the trail, I began to hear 
a clanking sound. Sounded like someone was 
pounding on a metal stake. At that point I tied 
Spirit’s reins loosely over a low hanging branch, 
and continued on foot. 
 “Keep quiet, buddy,” I whispered, as I left him.
 I slowly worked my way toward the sound, but it 
suddenly stopped. I stepped out to the edge of 
woods into a small thicket where I could get a 
better look. From behind the bushes, I saw that I 
was right next to the shore of a good sized lake. 
Down the way to my right, nearer where the path 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
169 
was, there was a clearing. There was a wagon 
pulled up in it and two or three piles of dirt 
between the wagon and the lake’s edge. I could see 
that the dirt had come from a number of holes dug 
right next to the lake. I could also see there was a 
pile of iron bars and ropes on the ground around 
the same area. It looked to me like someone was 
digging footers in the ground. Probably, I thought, 
to support pumping gear. 
 While I was looking, a man walked into view 
from around the side of the wagon. He was 
carrying a sledge hammer. It was the hired hand 
we’d met at the Triple T when we first got there 
after the fire. I watched as he picked through the 
pile of iron and ropes on the ground. After he 
found what he was looking for, he’d take it back 
around to the other side of the wagon, and the 
hammering would start again. 
 Other than the fact that Mr. Taylor was 
obviously proceeding with his pumping rig, I 
couldn’t think of any reason why I had to be so 
secretive. Maybe it was time I got to the bottom of 
all this. I decided to go back and get Spirit, so my 
appearance would look more natural. 
 As I worked my way back through the woods, I 
was surprised by a loud voice that broke the 
silence. 
 “HOLD ON THERE, MISTER. WHO ARE 
YOU AND WHAT DO YOU WANT?” 
 I spun around and there was Mr. Taylor standing 
not twenty feet away.  
John E. Richman 
 
170
 “Mr. Taylor,” I answered. “You surprised me. 
How are you doing? I was just riding by to pay my 
respects again at the Peterson place and heard 
some noise. I came out to take a look. I had no idea 
it was you.” 
 “Montana,” he replied, recognizing me now that 
I was facing him. “You scared me, too. You never 
know who’s running around in these woods out 
here or what they’re up to. You say you were just 
visiting the Peterson graves again?” 
 “Yes, sir. I’m just as surprised to find you out 
here on this bitter day. What brings you out here so 
early on a Sunday morning?” 
 “One of my boys and I are doing a little work on 
our pumping station. We plan on placing a steam 
engine next to the lake and need to prepare a solid 
base for it. The engine hasn’t been delivered yet, 
but with winter just around the corner, we wanted 
to get a little head start on our work for the week,” 
he answered. 
 “That explains the banging I heard. Can I give 
you a hand?” 
 “No need,” he responded. “I have my man Bob 
out here with me. Come on over and take a look.” 
 I followed him back toward the lake. When we 
got to the clearing, the other man looked up.  
 “Bob, this is young Montana. One of the men 
who brought Daisy to the ranch after the Peterson 
fire. You might remember him.” 
 The man simply nodded and kept about his 
work. 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
171 
 I decided this was as good a time as any to 
pursue a little more information. 
 “I’m a little surprised you’re moving ahead with 
all this,” I said, “before the judge figures out who 
owns the land.”  
 Mr. Taylor appeared to bristle a little at my 
comment and replied, “Peterson and I had a deal 
that I could use the lake water for the Triple T. I’ve 
already acquired considerable equipment for the 
project and need to get moving as fast as I can 
before the snow and ice stops us. Peterson’s 
unfortunate death doesn’t really change anything. I 
plan on continuing with the project while the 
weather allows, and let the land ownership get 
sorted out in its own time. I’ve already put in a 
purchase offer for the land if it turns out up for 
sale.” 
 I knew I was pushing my luck, but wanted to 
push him a little further. 
 “I also understood that there’s no record of your 
agreement with Mr. Peterson.” 
 “Where did you get that idea?” he answered. 
 Of course I couldn’t reveal where I got it or I 
would be putting Daisy at risk.  
 “Don’t exactly recall,” I replied, “but I know I 
heard it somewhere.” 
 My challenge must have touched a nerve because 
Mr. Taylor stopped what he was doing and just 
stared at me. A long moment later he turned away 
and walked over to his wagon. He reached his arm 
John E. Richman 
 
172
inside and pulled it back with a gun in his hand -- 
which he immediately leveled in my direction. 
 “Montana, I don’t know where you’re getting 
your information, but I’m getting the impression 
that you’re accusing me of something. I suppose 
you think I also burned the Peterson’s out so I 
could take their precious water on my own. 
Right?” 
 “Now wait a minute Mr. Taylor,” I said with a 
sudden and uncontrollable rise in the pitch of my 
voice. “There’s no reason to get excited. I’m not 
accusing you of anything like that at all. I’m just 
mentioning that you’ve gone to a lot of trouble and 
expense given the fact that the new owner might 
not honor your deal with Peterson. I don’t see any 
reason for the gun.” 
 With a new look of strain on his face, Taylor 
continued to hold the gun on me and began 
walking in my direction.  
 “Bob,” he shouted over the hammer clanking in 
the background. “Bob, get over here now.” 
 I couldn’t believe I’d let my big mouth get me in 
trouble again. Why was it that I keep letting bad 
guys get the drop on me? This time looked to be 
even worse than with McVey. At least last time I 
had Captain Daggot and Whitey somewhere 
behind me. This time I was pretty much on my 
own.  
 “Bob” had now joined Mr. Taylor, and he still 
had the sledge in his hand. 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
173 
 “I’m through being second guessed by every 
drifter that rides by the Triple T. You made a big 
mistake this morning Montana. You’ll never get to 
know about my deal with Peterson, because you’re 
going to join him.” 
 My mind was racing, trying to figure out what to 
do. Like with McVey, my next move wasn’t 
obvious. I was staring down the barrel of a loaded 
.45 as well as a strange guy with a sledge hammer. 
If there was a way out of this, it needed to come to 
me fast. Unfortunately, again, it didn’t. 
 As Mr. Taylor and “Bob” proceeded to walk 
toward me, I began to back up. For the next few 
moments we were in lock-step as I tried my best to 
keep the same distance between us.  
 “You can hold up any time,” Taylor said. “I 
don’t think you can walk backward as fast as a 
bullet.” 
 “I’d like to try,” I responded, knowing that my 
desperate sarcasm was not likely to improve the 
situation. Why hadn’t I grabbed the Winchester 
when I left Spirit? 
 It seemed like the next few moments lasted ten 
minutes or so. I kept back-stepping and they kept 
coming.  
 Then my right foot hit something. I tripped. All I 
knew is that the ground fell away and I was falling. 
Down and down I went until I could no longer see 
Taylor, or the sky, or anything.  
 THUD! I hit the bottom. All I could think was 
that I fell in a hole -- maybe a well. Whatever it 
John E. Richman 
 
174
was, it was dark. Also, my legs hurt. I must have 
fallen twenty feet or so. I looked up to see the light 
coming through a circular hole about twice the 
diameter of my body. I supposed this was the place 
I was going to die. The thought scared me.  
 “Well look at that, will you?” I heard Mr. Taylor 
say. “Looks like our young friend Montana must 
have fallen down an old well hole. Probably killed 
him. Too bad.”  
 Then he laughed.  
 I think that got to me more than anything else. 
Ellen’s suspicions were right. He was evil. I 
figured he was either going to shoot me where I 
was or leave me to starve to death. Either way, I’d 
done it again. How, I thought, was I ever going to 
live to grow up if I kept letting crazy men get the 
best of me? In all other respects, I’m a pretty bright 
guy, but this was clearly a character flaw I had to 
work on. I vowed that if I got out of this, I’d work 
harder at being smarter.  
 When the pain in my legs subsided, I found that I 
was in mud up to my knees. The mud had 
cushioned my fall, but at the same time, trapped 
me like quicksand. 
 I waited for what would happen next…but 
nothing happened. Mr. Taylor stopped talking and 
no one was shooting, so I figured they’d left -- left 
me to die in the mud. Of course this meant that he 
had burned the Peterson’s place down and killed 
them both, just as I suspected. But my knowing 
this now wasn’t going to do anybody any good. 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
175 
Sheriff Masterson would never know it. All he’d 
know is that after the Peterson funeral, I decided to 
leave town. No one would look for me. Maybe 
Ellen would try to get a search going, but even if 
she did, no one would ever look out here.  
 A minute later I heard horses moving. The 
wagon was leaving. They were so sure I was going 
to die here, they were content to just let it 
happen…in the quiet of my mud hole. I under-
stood. By letting me die in the well, Mr. Taylor 
could take himself out of it altogether, and go on 
pretending that he was a righteous citizen. He 
didn’t kill me. I just came by and fell in an old well 
on my own. Probably, no one would ever even 
know that, but if they did, it’d be just another sad 
accident.  
 I didn’t want to die this way, but more, I didn’t 
want Taylor to get away with it. My options, 
however, seemed limited. Even if I could get my 
legs out of the mud, there didn’t seem to be any 
way to scale the slick sides of this old shaft, which 
were getting wetter and wetter all the time. And I 
worried about Spirit. Tied to the bush as he was, he 
might not be able to get free and he might die with 
me. Well, not exactly with me, but because of me. 
I didn’t want to start feeling sorry for myself, but I 
knew I was in a pretty bad way…and it kept 
raining. 
 I’d been in the hole for probably ten minutes 
when I heard something above me. 
John E. Richman 
 
176
 A worried voice cut through the silence. 
“Montana, are you all right?” 
 I looked up to see a small head peering down 
into the darkness. All I could see was a silhouette, 
but it sounded like Daisy! 
 “Daisy, is that you?” 
 “Yes, are you okay?” she answered. 
 “It’s sure good to see you! I think I’m okay 
…maybe a few bumps and bruises. What are you 
doing out here?” 
 “I think we need to get you out first. Can you 
climb at all?” 
 “No, the sides are too wet and I’m standing in 
two feet of mud. I saw some ropes back by the 
lake. Can you go get one?” 
 “I’ll go look. Don’t go anywhere,” she said.  
 You have to love her sense of humor, I thought. 
 “Daisy,” I yelled, “when you go, look around to 
your left as you walk toward the lake. I left Spirit 
out there, tied to a thicket. Bring him too.” 
 It seemed like she was gone a long time and I 
was beginning to worry that she’d run into Mr. 
Taylor. 
 Finally, I heard noise again above me. 
 “Montana, I tied one end of the rope to Spirit’s 
saddle horn. Here’s the other end. Watch out, here 
it comes.” 
 I really couldn’t move much, so the rope hit me 
in the head and bounced down my backside. I 
reached around my back, grabbed it, and moved it 
around my body to the front, where I could get a 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
177 
better grip. I pulled down the slack and tugged on 
it to test it. It was tight. 
 I then reached up and grabbed it as high as I 
could and, with what little room I had, tied a small 
loop in it. I gripped both hands inside the loop and 
pulled, trying to pull my legs out of the mud. It 
wasn’t working and after a few tries, it was clear 
that I’d need some help. 
 “Daisy, start moving Spirit back now -- but slow. 
The rope’s wet and I don’t want to lose my grip.” 
 I heard her talking to Spirit and moment later the 
rope began to tighten. As it did, I pulled again. 
This time, with Spirit’s help, my body started 
lifting. I had to stretch my toes up, so my boots 
would stay on until they broke free of the mud. 
 Spirit continued to pull and I continued to rise. 
Finally, I broke the surface and my body changed 
direction. I was now being pulled sideways and 
clear of the hole. I released my grip and lay there 
on the ground, trying to catch my breath. I looked 
up to see Daisy running over to me from where 
Spirit stood, with the other end of the rope still 
looped around the saddle horn.  
 “Are you sure you’re okay?” she repeated in a 
real anxious voice. “You’re covered in mud!” 
 I got to my knees and pulled myself up.  
 “I’m fine…covered in mud, but fine. How in the 
world did you find me?” I asked. 
 “I remembered that you said you might come 
back out here this morning to take a look around. 
After Mr. Taylor left this morning, I got worried 
John E. Richman 
 
178
and snuck out and see if I could find you. By the 
time I got here, I saw Mr. Taylor pointing his gun 
at you. I saw you fall in the hole and stayed hid 
over there until they left,” she replied. “Do you 
really think he set fire to our house?” 
 By that time we’d walked back to Spirit and 
pulled the rope off him.  
 “Good boy,” I said, as I patted his neck and gave 
him a big hug. “Good boy.” That wasn’t saying 
near enough, but he understood.  
 “I’m afraid so, Daisy,” I answered. “It seems he 
was going to get this lake water one way or the 
other.” 
 I then picked Daisy up and gave her a big hug. “I 
don’t know what to say to you Daisy, but thanks! 
You were crazy for coming out here on your own, 
but if it hadn’t been for you taking the chance, I’d 
probably have died in that well and nobody would 
ever have known.” 
 I put her back down. “You’re welcome, Mon-
tana. I knew you promised that I’d meet up with 
Spirit again, but didn’t think it would be like this!” 
 “Me neither,” I said. “We’re both cold and wet. 
Let’s get your horse and get out of there before 
they change their mind and come back to shoot 
me.” 
 “Where do we go?” she asked. 
 “We need to go right back to town and tell the 
Sheriff. Do you think you can make it?” 
 “I made it this far. I can make it the rest of the 
way,” she replied.  
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
179 
 We walked Spirit over to where Daisy’s horse 
was tied, and I helped her up in the saddle.  
 “We gotta stay off the main trail back by the 
Taylor place, so just follow me.” 
 
 
180
Chapter 20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 I wasn’t sure where Taylor and his man had 
gone after they’d left the lake, but figured they 
went back home. I didn’t want to run into them 
again, particularly now with Daisy, so we had to 
make our own trail again. On the bright side, the 
rain and mist made good cover for us. We rode 
under the ridge of a series of small hills. There 
were lots of ups and downs, but the land was 
mostly open and we made better time than I’d 
expected.  
 As we rode, I did some thinking about what had 
happened. I guess I’d been careless in taking on 
Mr. Taylor out at the lake like I did, and even 
though his response showed him to be guilty of 
setting the fire, in the process, I’d let him get the 
upper hand. This time it had nearly cost me my 
life. I felt like going right back to his ranch and 
bringing him in myself, but knew that would be 
making the same mistake again. Also, I had to 
think about Daisy. By now they’d know she was 
gone and probably started looking for her. 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
181 
We needed to get to Dodge and to Sheriff 
Masterson as quickly as possible. 
As we rode, I kept thinking about Captain 
Daggot’s advice. “Don’t ever let another man’s 
behavior dictate yours.” I vowed not to do that 
again. 
 
 It was early afternoon by the time we got to 
town. We headed straight to the jail and I kept my 
fingers crossed that Sheriff Masterson had come 
back early. If not, Daisy and I would tell our story 
to the deputy on duty, and try to get him to arrest 
Mr. Taylor.  
 When we got to the jail, there were two horses 
tied out front. I was glad to see that one was 
Sheriff Masterson’s. They were both still steaming 
so I knew they’d just come in.  
 Once in the jail office, we found Sheriff 
Masterson and two other men holding a meeting 
over the desk. One was the deputy I’d spoken to 
before. The other was an older man with a different 
badge on his coat. The badge said “Ford County 
Marshal” so I knew right off it was Marshal 
Tilghman.  
 “You look a sight, Montana,” Sheriff Masterson 
said. “I knew it was getting muddy out there but 
didn’t know it was knee deep yet! What brings you 
and young Miss Peterson out on such a miserable 
day?”
John E. Richman 
 
182
 “Bill,” he continued, now directing his voice to 
the Marshal, “this is the young man from Montana 
I was telling you about.” 
 “Good to meet you, young man,” said the 
Marshal, as held his hand out to shake.  
 “Sheriff Masterson says you’d make a good 
deputy. You ought to give it some thought.” 
 “A pleasure to meet you too, sir, and I’ll do that, 
but right now I have some news about the Peterson 
fire and we need your help. Mr. Taylor and his 
man just tried to kill me out at the Peterson place. 
We need to talk.” 
 Tired and wet as they were, Sheriff Masterson 
and Marshal Tilghman stopped what they were 
doing, sat themselves down, and listened to my 
story. Daisy sat down next to the stove, but I was 
too excited to sit and didn’t want to get mud all 
over everything, anyway.  
 I started with Daisy telling Ellen and me about 
the fight her father and Mr. Taylor’d had over the 
lake water. I also told them that Mr. White had 
found out that her uncle was dead. I told him about 
the equipment already going in at the lake and how 
Mr. Taylor and his man had tried to kill me out 
there, leaving me to die in a muddy well.  
 When I finished, Marshal Tilghman said, “Your 
trousers would suggest that you recently spent 
some time in a well, so I guessing that all this is 
true.” He turned to Sheriff Masterson, “What do 
you think, Jim?” 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
183 
 “MONTANA WOULDN’T LIE,” Daisy jumped 
in. “IT ALL HAPPENED JUST THE WAY HE 
SAID!”  
 “I agree with the girl, Bill. I’d asked Montana to 
do some investigating for me while we were gone, 
and it looks like he did a pretty thorough job. I’ve 
had my doubts about the ‘new’ Walter Taylor since 
the beginning, and I think it’s time we bring him 
in.”  
 “I agree and I’ll join you. By now they’ve 
certainly discovered that the girl is gone so we 
better get right out there, before they come to us,” 
said Tilghman. “Good job, young man, but I’m 
getting the feeling this long day will never end.” 
 As they got up to leave, Sheriff Masterson turned 
back to me and said, “I agree, Montana. You’ve 
done a good job. Now you stay here with the girl 
and find her a place to get cleaned up and dry 
before both of you catch your deaths.” 
 I mostly wanted to be there for the arrest, but 
part of me didn’t. I couldn’t help but feel sorry for 
Mrs. Taylor when she found out that her husband 
killed Daisy’s folks. But for now, I had to take care 
of Daisy. 
 She and I walked back outside the jail and I 
looked down the darkening street. There was still a 
light on in the window at the mercantile. That was 
it, I thought. I’d take her to the Willocks. I was 
sure they’d take her in. 
 “Grab your horse and walk with me, Daisy. I’m 
taking you down to Ellen’s.” 
John E. Richman 
 
184
 With only a partial explanation of all that had 
happened, the Willocks agreed to take Daisy in for 
the night. 
  I got back to the hotel an hour later after taking 
both horses down to the livery and drying them off. 
It was time for me, now. I needed to get cleaned up 
and settled down, too.  
 There was nobody but the night clerk in the hotel 
foyer, so I went right outback to the water station, 
removed my muddy boots and trousers in the dark, 
and dumped five or six buckets of water over me 
and my clothes. I left the trousers over the line in 
the rain and carried my wet boots upstairs to my 
room, in my long Johns. I hoped the Sheriff’s 
confrontation out at the Taylors went well but I 
was too tired to do much about it, so I went to bed. 
  
 Monday dawned a little clearer. The rain had 
finally let up sometime during the night. I like 
mornings anyway but was happier than usual to see 
this one, particularly when I thought back to how 
close I came to not seeing it. My curiosity 
wouldn’t let me sleep in, so got up early and went 
over to the jail to see how the arrest had turned out. 
The lights were out and the front door was locked. 
I was too early. I walked by the mercantile and 
found it, too, wasn’t yet open. I checked my pocket 
watch and it was only six-thirty.  
 With little more to do, I wandered down to the 
livery to see Spirit. He was already up and eating 
again.  
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
185 
 “Spirit, I swear if I don’t get you out of Dodge 
fast and back on the trail, you’ll be so fat you 
won’t be able to chase cattle!”  
 I found a grooming brush and spent the next 
hour combing and talking to my buddy about all 
my troubles. 
 I’d been there almost an hour when I decided it 
was time to check the jail again. About half way 
down the narrow livery aisle, I stopped cold. I 
thought I saw him out of the corner of my eye, but 
now I was looking straight at him. There was no 
doubt about it. I was looking at Captain Daggot’s 
giant horse! I don’t know how I missed him on the 
way in, but it had been dark and I guess I just 
wasn’t looking. A few stalls further down, I found 
Whitey’s paint. They must have returned from 
their hunt some time during the night. I remem-
bered that when he left, he said they’d try to stop 
back now and then, to check up on the investi-
gation. Their timing might be perfect.  
 I quickly walked back up the street to the jail but 
it was still locked up. As I turned to head back to 
the hotel I looked up to see the Captain walking 
back toward me with Sheriff Masterson.  
 “Couldn’t wait, could you?” the Sheriff said, as 
we met outside the jail door. 
 “I’ve been up for over an hour trying to catch 
you coming in,” I replied. “Captain Daggot, it’s 
great to see you again. I saw your horse down at 
the livery. Did you get in last night?” 
John E. Richman 
 
186
 “Yeah,” he replied, grabbing my hand to shake 
it. “Jim here tells me you’ve been at it again. A 
well this time. If you keep this up, you’re never 
going to see twenty-one!” he laughed. 
 “I think you’re right,” I said. “Did the Sheriff tell 
you what all happened?” 
 “All that, and probably more,” he replied as we 
walked in to the jail office.  
 “Tell me Sheriff, how did it go last night?” I 
asked. 
 “Wasn’t hard at all, Montana. When you’ve been 
a lawman as long as I have, you try to find easy 
ways to do things,” he said while pouring water in 
his coffee pot. 
 “We went out to the Taylor’s and found them 
searching the ranch for Daisy. Mrs. Taylor told us 
Walter was out looking on horseback. Marshal 
Tilghman stayed back with her to explain what had 
happened. While he was doing that, I rode around 
the ranch looking for him. It didn’t take me long, 
as he was calling her name out pretty loud. I rode 
up and told him that Daisy had come into town 
earlier and that we were holding her at the jail until 
we could fetch him. I also told him that he should 
come right in with me and that Marshal Tilghman 
would stay with Mrs. Taylor until he returned. We 
rode, nice and quiet, back into Dodge, where I 
placed him under arrest for the murder of the 
Petersons.” 
 “Where is he now?” I asked. 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
187 
 “Right behind that wall. He spent the night here 
and I hope he found it comfortable, because he’s 
going to be spending a lot more of them here until 
the circuit judge comes by the first of next month.” 
 “I don’t suppose he admitted to trying to kill 
me?” I asked.  
 “No, he denied it at first. It wasn’t until I 
mentioned that we had a witness that he softened 
up a little.” 
 “Does he know who the witness is?” I said. 
 “He does now. He claims that he and his man 
were just trying to scare you into leaving the area 
and what Daisy saw was just an accident and that 
they were going for help. Funny thing is that when 
he got back to his ranch, he never mentioned any 
of it to Mrs. Taylor, so his story is pretty weak. I 
suspect the judge will see right through it.” 
 “Marshal Tilghman,” I asked, “how did Mrs. 
Taylor take the news?” 
 The Marshal replied, “You know, I’ve always 
had a lot of respect for that woman. Went to school 
with her years ago. At first she couldn’t believe it 
but when I explained to her about the water and all, 
she stopped fighting it and admitted that he’d been 
acting very strange lately. She’s still having trouble 
believing that he could set fire to Peterson’s home, 
but she felt just as bad about you, Montana. Turns 
out she kind of likes you and when she heard that 
Daisy saw him pull a gun on you and leave you in 
the well, I think she felt worse for you.” 
 “What will happen to Daisy now?” I asked. 
John E. Richman 
 
188
 “It will still be up to the judge,” the Sheriff 
responded, “but I doubt if he’ll leave her with Mrs. 
Taylor. Too bad about her uncle being dead. I’m 
not sure what will happen to her.” 
 Captain Daggot interrupted. “Montana, while 
Jim’s taking care of his prisoner, how about you 
come up and join Whitey and me for breakfast? 
You can tell me all about your week.” 
 That was the best offer I’d had in days, so we left 
the jail to meet Whitey across from the hotel. On 
our way up the street, I felt a lot better about 
things. I knew Mr. Taylor would lie about 
everything, but Daisy saved the day by being out 
there and seeing it all. Without her, I couldn’t even 
guess how this all would have turned out. 
 We met Whitey at the saloon and they told me 
about their hunt. The reason they got back so soon 
was that they had just left town when they ran 
across one of the biggest remaining buffalo herds. 
They didn’t take too many because they didn’t 
have a wagon and their horses could only carry a 
small number of skins. They also made sure the 
carcasses went to the locals.  
 As we were finishing, Captain Daggot reached in 
his vest pocket and took out a piece of rolled up 
paper. He handed it to me. 
 “What’s this?” I asked. 
 “It’s not for you,” he replied. “It’s for that little 
girl.” 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
189 
 I carefully opened up the paper and in it was the 
ring that the Captain had taken from her mother’s 
finger. He’d cleaned it up and was shiny as new. 
 “Thank you Captain. Daisy’s had a hard time and 
I’m sure this will cheer her up a lot,” I said. 
 “I’m sorry I didn’t think to give it to you before. 
I had it with me but clean forgot. You make sure 
the little girl gets it.” 
 “I sure will,” I responded. “I’m sure she’ll be 
surprised.” 
 “So what’s the future hold for you, Montana,” 
Daggot asked. “Are you still looking to catch on to 
one of the big drives?” 
 “I am,” I said. “but I’m sure the Sheriff will want 
me to testify next month at Mr. Taylor’s trial, so I 
guess I’m going to be around Dodge a little longer. 
Are you and Whitey going back out on another 
hunt? 
 “We’re leaving tomorrow, but this time we’re 
leaving the area. It’s getting cold here and we can 
hunt just as well down Texas way. We might run 
into you down there, if you ever get there.” 
 “I’ll get there, and I’ll be watching for you. I 
understand that most of the big drives come out of 
Fort Worth. Stop by there occasionally and try to 
look me up.” 
 “We’ll do that,” said Whitey as he stood up and 
reached into a small bag on his belt. He brought 
out a small, black flint carving of a man’s head and 
handed it to me. I took it and looked it over 
closely. “It’s beautiful,” I said. “Who is it?” 
John E. Richman 
 
190
 “Montana,” he replied. “You keep it for good 
medicine.” 
 I took a closer look at it and Whitey was right. It 
looked like me!  
 “I’ll keep it right around my neck for luck. I 
suspect I’ll need it. Thank you, Whitey. It’s 
beautiful.” 
 Whitey just nodded and left the table.  
 “He’s been working on that for two weeks,” 
Captain said. “You keep it with you and see if you 
can stop getting yourself in trouble.” 
 We shook hands again and I knew I’d miss these 
men a lot. I really hoped that our paths would cross 
again. 
 
 
191 
Chapter 21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 It was Christmas Eve and the prairie was quiet 
under the brightest moon I‘d seen since leaving 
home. I would’ve usually made camp by now, but 
neither Spirit nor I were tired. We’d left Kansas 
three days ago and were following the southern 
stars across the Oklahoma panhandle, toward 
Texas.  
 Back in Bighorn Lake, my mother used to read 
Mary and me plays written by a dead Englishman. 
I remember one of them was called, “All’s Well 
That End’s Well.” I decided that pretty much des-
cribed how my time in Dodge turned out. 
 I took up Mr. Willock’s offer and worked in the 
mercantile until the trial. The circuit judge didn’t 
get to Dodge until mid-December and the trial took 
another week. The jury found Mr. Taylor guilty of 
setting the fire that killed Daisy’s folks, and he was 
sentenced to prison in Wichita, for the rest of his 
life. There were some who wanted him hung, but I 
was just as happy it turned out the way it did. It all 
was hard enough on Mrs. Taylor. 
 Last I heard, she was going to keep the ranch and 
John E. Richman 
 
192
try to work out a water deal with whoever ended 
up with the Peterson place. She could have bought 
it herself, but didn’t feel right about it, after what 
had happened. 
 Daisy’s staying with the Willocks, who filed 
papers to adopt her. Now her “big sister” Ellen will 
likely turn out to really be her big sister.  
 I’ll always remember giving her mother’s ring to 
Daisy. Ellen was with me when I did it. Just like 
Captain Daggot did to me, I handed it to her all 
wrapped up in the same piece of paper. I think she 
thought it was a note of some kind until she got it 
open. I didn’t have to tell her what it was…she 
knew right away. She had held it to her face and 
started to cry. I was really grateful that the Captain 
thought to retrieve it for her. The next time I saw 
her, she was wearing it on her right hand. She still 
misses her folks and her home, but she’s happy to 
be with Ellen and the Willocks, and I was happy 
for her. 
 The hardest thing for me was leaving Ellen. She 
asked me to stay, but I told that I needed to get 
back to the cattle business and knock some pounds 
off Spirit before he couldn’t even get up anymore. 
The day I left, she gave me a kiss goodbye and said 
she hoped I’d come back soon. I promised I would. 
 Sheriff Masterson introduced me to the ramrod 
of a large cattle outfit and I agreed to join them for 
a spring drive up the trail from Fort Worth.  
 
Call Me Montana – The Beginning 
 
 
193 
 
That means I could be back in Dodge by April. I 
promised Ellen I’d visit the mercantile as soon as I 
got back.  
 I also thought back to the others I’d been 
fortunate to meet over the past few months -- 
Captain Daggot, Whitey, Sarah, Sheriff Masterson 
and Marshal Tilghman. I supposed Sarah and her 
family were in California by now. I hope it turned 
out to be worth all their trouble. 
 Looking out at the silvery landscape, I also 
thought back to the little ranch up in Bighorn Lake. 
I hoped all was well there, too. I’d been gone 
nearly three years now and it seemed like forever. I 
made a promise to myself that once I got to Texas, 
I’d try to get a telegram up there to let them know I 
was doing okay. I’d try to visit up there, after the 
drive. Maybe I could convince Ellen to come with 
me. 
 As Spirit continued to poke along, I reached 
down and gave him a pat. He played no small role 
in my recent adventures and I hoped he’d be 
around to keep doing so for years to come. 
 I then looked up and made a wish on the stars 
that my family and friends were as much at peace 
on this holy night as I was, out here on the moonlit 
prairie. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
